Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market
Environments for Financial Reinforcement
Learning
Xiao-Yang Liu1, Ziyi Xia 1, Hongyang Yang1, Jiechao
Gao2, Daochen Zha 3, Ming Zhu 4, Christina Dan
Wang5, Zhaoran Wang 6 and Jian Guo 7
1Columbia University, USA.
2University of Virginia, USA.
3Rice University, USA.
4SIAT, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China.
5New York University (Shanghai), China.
6Northwestern University, USA.
7IDEA Research, International Digital Economy Academy, China.
Abstract
The ﬁnancial market is a particularly challenging playground for deep
reinforcement learning due to its unique feature of dynamic datasets.
Building high-quality market environments for training ﬁnancial rein-
forcement learning (FinRL) agents is diﬃcult due to major factors such
as the low signal-to-noise ratio of ﬁnancial data, survivorship bias of
historical data, and model overﬁtting. In this paper, we present FinRL-
Meta, a data-centric and openly accessible library that processes dynamic
datasets from real-world markets into gym-style market environments
and has been actively maintained by the AI4Finance community. First,
following a DataOps paradigm, we provide hundreds of market environ-
ments through an automatic data curation pipeline. Second, we provide
homegrown examples and reproduce popular research papers as stepping
stones for users to design new trading strategies. We also deploy the
library on cloud platforms so that users can visualize their own results
and assess the relative performance via community-wise competitions.
Third, we provide dozens of Jupyter/Python demos organized into a
curriculum and a documentation website to serve the rapidly growing
1
arXiv:2304.13174v1  [cs.LG]  25 Apr 2023

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
2 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
community. The open-source codes for the data curation pipeline are
available at https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinRL-Meta
Keywords: Financial reinforcement learning, FinRL, dynamic dataset,
market environment, AI4Finance, open ﬁnance
1 Introduction
Financial reinforcement learning (FinRL) [1, 2] is a promising interdisciplinary
ﬁeld of ﬁnance and reinforcement learning, driven by the spirit of “trade with
an (technology) edge”1. In the past decade, deep reinforcement learning (DRL)
[3], as a disruptive technology, has delivered a superhuman performance in
Atari games [4], Go [5, 6], StarCraft II [7], the recent eye-catching ChatGPT [8],
and GPT-4 [9]. The ﬁnancial market is a particularly challenging playground
for DRL due to the unique feature ofdynamic dataset, a sharp contrast to the
static ImageNet dataset [10].
The static ImageNet dataset [10] initiated the ﬁeld of deep learning.
Researchers designed and applied many deep neural network models to real-
worldvisualapplications. However,theseapplicationsdealwith “static” datasets,
such as MNIST, CIFAR-10, Yale Face Database, which are quite diﬀerent from
the ﬁnancial market, where the data is dynamic in nature. The market trend,
development of companies, and economic situation of countries are refresh-
ing over time. To handle time-sensitive ﬁnancial data, models have to learn
up-to-date information and adapt to real-time market situations.
Existing works [1, 11, 12] have already applied various DRL algorithms in
ﬁnancial applications, including investigating market fragility [13], designing
proﬁtable strategies [14–16], and assessing portfolio risk [11, 17]. Exemplar
ﬁnancial trading tasks include
• Fundamentals analysis: e.g., value investing, growth investing
• Technical analysis: commodity trading advisor (CTA), momentum, trend
following, etc.
• Macro strategies: e.g., bonds, gold, crude oil, forex.
• Quantitative strategies: statistical arbitrage, merge/event arbitrage, etc.
• High-frequency trading: many diﬀerent sub-strategies inside.
Some recent works [11, 18, 19] have shown that DRL can deliver better trad-
ing performance than classical strategies and conventional machine learning
methods do on these tasks regarding cumulative return and Sharpe ratio. How-
ever, these works are diﬃcult to reproduce. Several recent eﬀorts have been
dedicated to facilitating reproducibility. The FinRL library [1, 20] provided an
open-source framework for ﬁnancial reinforcement learning. Unfortunately, it
only focused on the reproducibility of backtesting performance by providing
several market environments. A conference version of FinRL-Meta [21] provided
1Find a (technology) edge and position to win.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning3
Fig. 1 DataOps paradigm (left) and FinRL-Meta (right).
a ﬁnancial dataset and benchmark, but it did not provide a dynamic dataset,
sentiment data, and market simulator.
However, building near-real market environments for ﬁnancial reinforcement
learning (FinRL) is diﬃcult due to major factors such as low signal-to-noise
ratio (SNR) of ﬁnancial data, partial observation, reward delay, survivorship
bias of historical data, and model overﬁtting. Such asimulation-to-reality gap
[22, 23] degrades the performance of DRL strategies in real markets. A good
backtest performance does not necessarily reﬂect the actual trading performance
since the ﬁnancial dataset could be susceptible to ﬂaws like missing data, noise,
and anomalies.
Data-centric AI [24–26] is a new trend that appeals to shift the focus from
model to data. It focuses on the systematic engineering of data in building
AI systems, which can lead to better model behaviors in the real world [25].
When training DRL agents, if the data is susceptible to ﬂaws, even if our
model/strategy can have a good backtest performance, it will be hard to tell
whether the model can actually perform well in the real deployment or is just
a result of overﬁtting the dataset. Therefore, building a standard workﬂow to
ensure data quality is imperative to foster reliable market environments and
benchmarks and motivate the research and industrialization of FinRL.
In this paper, we present FinRL-Meta, a data-centric and openly accessible
library that has been actively maintained by the AI4Finance community, with
a particular focus on data quality. The aim of FinRL-Meta is to create an
infrastructure to enable real-time paper trading and facilitate the real-world
adoption of FinRL technology. This contributes to the broader RL or ML
research community since it allows researchers to test DRL agents in real and
dynamic environments.
To handle highly unstructured ﬁnancial big data, we follow theDataOps
paradigm and implement an automatic data curation pipeline in Fig. 1 (left).
The DataOps paradigm [27, 28] refers to a set of practices, processes, and
technologies that combines automated data engineering and agile development
[28]. It helps reduce the cycle time of data engineering and improve data quality.
Following the DataOps paradigm, we design an RLOps pipeline tailored for
FinRL to continuously produce DRL benchmarks on dynamic market datasets.
The RLOps pipeline consists of the following steps:
• The ﬁrst step is task planning, such as stock trading, portfolio allocation,
and cryptocurrency trading.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
4 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
• Then, we do data processing, including data accessing and cleaning, and
feature engineering.
• Next step is where RL takes part in. In particular, the training-testing-
trading process, detailed in Fig. 4.
• The ﬁnal step is performance monitoring.
Fig. 1 (right) shows the overview of FinRL-Meta. First, following the
DataOps paradigm [27, 28], we provide hundreds of market environments
through an automatic data curation pipeline that collects dynamic datasets
from real-world markets and processes them into standard gym-style market
environments. Second, we reproduce popular papers as benchmarks, including
high-frequency stock trading, cryptocurrency trading and stock portfolio allo-
cation, serving as stepping stones for users to design new strategies. With the
help of the data curation pipeline, we hold our benchmarks on cloud platforms
so that users can visualize their own results and assess the relative performance
via community-wise competitions. Third, we provide dozens of Jupyter/Python
demos as educational materials, organized in a curriculum for community new-
comers with diﬀerent levels of proﬁciency and learning goals. At the same time,
we maintain a documentation website to serve the rapidly growing community.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes
related works. Section 3 presents an overview of FinRL and the FinRL-Meta
framework. Section 4 describes the automatic data curation pipeline of FinRL-
Meta. In Section 5, we present several homegrown examples using FinRL-Meta.
Finally, we conclude this paper and discuss future works in Section 6.
2 Related Works
We review the technology landscape and existing works on ﬁnancial big data,
data-centric AI, DataOps practices, data-driven RL, and FinRL applications.
2.1 Handling Financial Big Data
Financial big data: Financial big data refers to the vast amount of data
that is available in the ﬁnancial industry from various sources. By analyzing
this data, traders can make informed decisions about investments. Like all big
data, ﬁnancial big data also shares the four key properties, known as the 4V’s2:
volume, variety, velocity, and veracity.
• 1) Volume. Financial big data has a large scale. Now, the market can
support high-frequency trading at the level of microseconds. With high-
frequency trading, billions of shares can be traded within a day, generating
an enormous amount of data that records these transactions.
• 2) Velocity. As the market refreshes at the microsecond level, the velocity
of data transmission and processing is very important. Companies are
continually seeking ways to speed up data transmission and processing to
minimize delays and errors. This includes utilizing closer physical proximity
2The Four V’s of Big Data: https://opensistemas.com/en/the-four-vs-of-big-data/

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning5
to data vendors, improving cable materials, and developing more eﬃcient
algorithms.
• 3) Variety. There are structured and unstructured data in ﬁnance. A data
vendor may provide structured data for users to access, usually the volume-
price data. Besides that, there are a huge amount of alternative data from
news, social media, and ﬁnancial reports that are considered during the
process of generating indicators.
• 4) Veracity. Data quality and availability are extremely important. How-
ever, big data’s larger scale also brings a latent risk of lack of veracity. Due
to its close relationship with money and assets, data quality is particularly
sensitive in the ﬁnance industry.
Data-centric AI:With the 4V’s properties, the quality of ﬁnancial data
plays a critical role in enabling strong FinRL models in real deployments.
In the past, FinRL research was conducted in a model-centric way, with an
emphasis on improving model designs using predetermined datasets. However,
solely depending on static datasets does not necessarily result in satisfactory
model performance in real-world scenarios, especially when the dataset is
ﬂawed [29]. Furthermore, neglecting the importance of data quality can trigger
data cascades [30], leading to reduced accuracy in real deployments.
Recently, the attention of researchers and practitioners has gradually shifted
toward data-centric AI [24–26], with a stronger emphasis on improving data
quality by the systematic engineering of data. The beneﬁts of data-centric AI
have been validated by both researchers and practitioners [25, 31]. In order to
drive tangible advancements in FinRL research and deployment, we have made
our library data-centric by building upon dynamic datasets and implementing
an automated data curation pipeline for quality control.
DataOps practices: From another perspective, a standardized develop-
ment cycle is necessary for eﬀectively handling highly unstructured ﬁnancial
big data. DataOps [27, 28] applies the ideas of lean development and DevOps
to the data science ﬁeld. DataOps practices have been developed in companies
and organizations to improve the quality and eﬃciency of data analytics [27].
These implementations consolidate various data sources, and unify and auto-
mate the pipeline of data analytics, including data accessing, cleaning, analysis,
and visualization.
The DataOps paradigm [28], or more accurately the methodology, is a way
of organizing people, processes and technology to deliver reliable and high-
quality data eﬃciently to all its users. The practice of DataOps focuses on
enabling collaboration across the organization to drive agility, speed of delivery
and new data initiatives. By leveraging the power of automation, DataOps aims
to address the challenges associated with ineﬃciencies in access, preparation,
integration and availability of data.
Many researchers studied FinRL applications [14–16, 18, 32, 33] by build-
ing their own market environments. Despite the above-mentioned open-source
libraries that provide some valuable settings, there are no established bench-
marks yet. On the other hand, the data accessing, cleaning and feature/factor

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
6 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
extraction processes are usually limited to data sources like Yahoo Finance
and Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS).
However, the DataOps methodology has not been applied to FinRL research.
Most researchers access data, clean data, and extract technical indicators
(features) in a case-by-case manner, which involves heavy manual work and
may not guarantee high data quality.
2.2 Data-Driven Reinforcement Learning
Data-driven RL: If a policy is learned from a collected dataset, it is promising
that we can get the data-driven strategy3. Based on the datasets, RL will be
a powerful method to perform data-driven strategies without any interaction
with the environment or human intervention. RL will greatly reduce human
labor and therefore improves automation.
Oﬄine RL [34]: Oﬄine RL is a typical data-driven formulation of rein-
forcement learning problems. In oﬄine RL, agents learn behaviors from a ﬁxed
dataset, without the process of exploration in the environment. It has great
potential in tasks where collecting real-time data is inconvenient, either too
expensive or risky(e.g., robotic tasks, autonomous driving), or the amount of
data is limited (e.g., stock market, clinical surgery).
Curriculum learning: Curriculum learning is a technique that trains the
model using multiple stages from simple to complex. With ﬁne-tuning for
speciﬁc tasks, curriculum learning could have faster convergence and ﬁnd better
minima. [35] proposed to use two stages of training for the portfolio management
task, ﬁrst using a neural network to ﬁt the mean-variance optimization, then
ﬁne-tuning the model with online reinforcement learning. Well-known products
like AlphaGo and ChatGPT both use similar techniques.
RL from human feedback (RLHF): The idea of RLHF was ﬁrst intro-
duced by OpenAI and DeepMind in 2017 [36]. RLHF allows human feedback
as part of the agent’s reward function, making it a better alignment of model
performance and human expectations. One of the main reasons that ChatGPT
outperforms other large language models is its appropriate usage of RLHF.
Next, we review popular projects:
• OpenAI gym [37] Environments are crucial for training DRL agents [3].
OpenAI gym provides standardized environments for a collection of bench-
mark problems that expose a common interface, which is widely supported by
many libraries [38–40]. Three trading environments,TradingEnv, ForexEnv,
and StocksEnv, are included to support stock and FOREX markets. However,
it has not been updated for years.
• Game of Go.AlphaGo [5] and AlphaGo Zero [6] are programs for games
of Go. AlphaGo combines Monte Carlo simulation with value and policy net-
works, and becomes the ﬁrst computer program that defeats world champions
in Go game. AlphaGo Zero is the updated version, it learns by reinforcement
3Note that “data-driven” and “data-centric” are two distinct concepts. The former refers to
utilizing data to guide policy training, whereas the latter means placing data quality in the
central role in FinRL development. The endeavors of “data-driven” and “data-centric” approaches
complement each other in their eﬀorts to enhance overall policy performance.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning7
learning by playing against itself, without extra human data or knowledge.
These programs also provide suggestions for ﬁnancial reinforcement learning,
e.g., how to train the policy network by supervised learning and self-play.
• D4RL[41] introduces the idea ofdatasets for deep data-driven reinforcement
learning (D4RL). It provides benchmarks in oﬄine RL. However, D4RL does
not provide ﬁnancial environments.
• FinRL [1, 20] is an open-source library that builds a full pipeline for ﬁnancial
reinforcement learning. It contains three market environments, i.e., stock
trading, portfolio allocation, and crypto trading, and two data sources, i.e.,
Yahoo Finance and WRDS. However, those market environments of FinRL
cannot meet the community’s growing demands.
• NeoRL [42] collected oﬄine RL environments for four areas, CityLearn [43],
FinRL [1, 20], Industrial Benchmark [44], and MuJoCo [45], where each
area contains several gym-style environments. Regarding ﬁnancial aspects, it
directly imports market environments from FinRL.
• ChatGPT [8] and GPT-4 [9] are large language models for dialogues, which
can be used as the data source and feature/factor calculation for data-driven
ﬁnancial reinforcement learning. However, it is not as professional as we think;
therefore, how to train as an intelligent advisor is an important problem. We
can follow several steps using dialogue, including guides, listing examples,
admitting mistakes, etc.
As a new rising technology, RL is a promising tool for complicated ﬁnancial
tasks. Recently, many Wall Street companies have shown great interest in this
rising technology. However, RL’s instability makes it hard to put into practice
in the industry. AlphaGo and ChatGPT’s success in data-feed multi-stage
learning could be a great approach to adopting RL into their workﬂow. Hedge
funds ﬁrst feed their private data into supervised learning (imitation learning)
models for training, and then use reinforcement learning to ﬁne-tune the model
based on interaction with the market environments to achieve super-human
performance.
2.3 Financial Reinforcement Learning (FinRL)
RLOps paradigm in ﬁnance. Algorithmic trading [46, 47] has been widely
adopted in ﬁnancial investments. The lifecycle of a conventional machine learn-
ing strategy may include ﬁve general stages, as shown in Fig. 2 (left), namely
data pre-processing, modeling and trading signal generation, portfolio optimiza-
tion, trade execution, and post-trade analysis. Recently, deep reinforcement
learning (DRL) [3, 5, 6] has been recognized as a powerful approach for quanti-
tative ﬁnance, since it has the potential to overcome some important limitations
of supervised learning, such as the diﬃculty in label speciﬁcation and the gap
between modeling, positioning, and order execution.
We would like to extend the principle ofMLOps [48]4 to the RLOps in
ﬁnanceparadigm that implements and automates the continuous training
4MLOps is an ML engineering culture and practice that aims at unifying ML system development
(Dev) and ML system operation (Ops).

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
8 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Fig. 2 Comparison between conventional machine learning approach and RLOps in ﬁnance
for an algorithmic trading process.
(CT), continuous integration (CI), and continuous delivery (CD) for trading
strategies. Such a paradigm will have vast proﬁt potential from a broadened
horizon and fast speed, which is critical for wider DRL adoption in real-world
ﬁnancial tasks. TheRLOps in ﬁnanceparadigm, as shown in Fig. 2 (right),
integrates middle stages (i.e., modeling and trading signal generation, portfolio
optimization, and trade execution) into a DRL agent. Such a paradigm aims to
help quantitative traders develop an end-to-end trading strategy with a high
degree of automation, which removes the latency between stages and results
in a compact software stack. The major beneﬁt is that it can explore the vast
potential proﬁts behind the large-scale ﬁnancial data, exceeding the capacity
of human traders; thus, the trading horizon is lifted into a potentially new
dimension. Also, it allows traders to continuously update trading strategies,
which equips traders with an edge in a highly volatile market. However, the
large-scale ﬁnancial data and fast iteration of trading strategies bring imperative
challenges in terms of computing power.
FinRL applications: Along with the RLOps paradigm, diﬀerent FinRL
applications can be constructed and deployed. Electronic trading is popular
in many countries and is used in stock exchanges, electronic order books,
over-the-counter markets, foreign exchange, etc. Electronic trading enhances
liquidity since traders can easily buy or sell assets. We describe several FinRL
applications inspired by a complete survey [2], including optimal execution,
portfolio optimization, option pricing and hedging, market making, smart order
routing, and robo-advising.
• 1) Optimal execution is the problem of maximizing the return from buying
or selling a given amount of an asset within a given time period. A clas-
sical framework is the Almgren–Chriss model, which relies heavily on the
assumptions of the dynamics and the permanent and temporary price impact.
There are several popular criteria to evaluate the performance of execution
strategies, e.g., the proﬁt and loss, implementation shortfall, and the Sharp
ratio.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning9
T able 1 List of state space, action space, and reward function.
Key components Attributes
State
Balance bt ∈ R+; Shares ht ∈ Zn
+
Opening/high/low/close price ot, ht, lt, pt ∈ Rn
+
Trading volumevt ∈ Rn
+
Fundamental indicators; Technical indicators
Social data; Sentiment data
Alpha and beta signals; Smart beta indexes, etc.
Action Buy/Sell/Hold
Short/Long
Portfolio weights
Reward
Change of portfolio value
Portfolio log-return
Sharpe ratio
Environments
Dow-30, S&P-500, NASDAQ-100
Cryptocurrencies
Foreign currency and exchange
Futures; Options; ETFs; Forex
CN securities; US securities
Paper trading; Live Trading
• 2) Portfolio optimization aims to maximize some objective function by
selecting and trading the best portfolio of assets. One typical model is mean-
variance portfolio optimization, which aims to maximize the return for a
given risk measured by variance.
• 3) Option pricing and hedging are important in ﬁnance. The Black-Scholes
model is a typical mathematical model which aims to get the price of a
European option given several constraints: stock price, expiration time, and
the payoﬀ at expiry.
• 4) Market making aims to earn the bid-ask spread by providing liquidity to
the market by placing buy/sell limit orders in the limit order books.
• 5) Robo-advising or automated investment managing provides online ﬁnancial
advice with minimal human intervention. ChatGPT [8] and GPT-4 [9] may
be promising advisors if we guide them step by step.
3 FinRL Tasks and FinRL-Meta Framework
We introduce the Markov Decision Process (MDP) as a mathematical model of
FinRL tasks, summarize FinRL challenges, and then provide an overview of
the proposed FinRL-Meta framework.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
10 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
3.1 Modeling Financial Reinforcement Learning (FinRL)
FinRL tasks in general take the form of sequential decision-making problems,
which can be mathematically formulated as a Markov Decision Process (MDP)
with ﬁve-tuple(S,A,R, P,γ ) as follows
• State spaceS consists of all possible states;
• Action spaceA consists of all available actions;
• Reward functionR(s,a,s′) :S×A×S→ R assigns a real-valued reward
to a transition(s,a,s′);
• Transition probabilityP(s′|a,s ) :S×A×S→ [0, 1] models the dynamics
of a system (a.k.a., environment);
• Factorγ∈ (0, 1] discounts a future reward back to its present value.
MDP is a well-formed mathematical model for sequential decision-making
tasks in that a decision-maker can partially or fully inﬂuence the outcome.
State S and actionA deﬁne the input and output for decision-making tasks,
and reward functionR allows a model to learn by goal-seeking optimization.
Transition probabilityP allows the target problem to be stochastic, which is
usually closer to reality. The discount factorγ makes the model consider the
future reward when making decisions.
We summarize the state spaces, action spaces, and reward functions of
FinRL applications in Table 1. States usually demonstrate the condition of
market and the assets, such as the balance, shares of stocks, OHLCV data,
technical indicators, sentiment data, etc. Actions are the operations allowed in
the market, including buy/sell/hold certain shares of the stock, short or long,
change of portfolio weights on stocks, etc. The reward functions indicate what
kind of objective we want the agent to achieve, for example, a change of portfolio
value (a larger positive change leads to a larger positive reward, vice versa) for
maximizing excess return, Sharpe ratio for balancing return and risk, etc.
Objective function: Many ﬁnancial tasks can be written in the form
of optimization problems. When using RL, the objective function is to
ﬁnd a policyπ(s,a ) that maximizes the discounted cumulative returnr =∑T
t=0γtR(st,a,s t+1).
Example I. For the stock trading task [14] on 30 constituent stocks of the
Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) index, we specify the “state-action-reward”
as follows:
• State st = [bt, pt, ft, ht] ∈ R30(I+2)+1, where scalar bt ∈ R+ is the
remaining balance in the account,pt∈ R30
+ is the prices of 30 stocks,
ft∈ R30·I is a feature vector and each stock hasI technical indicators, and
ht∈ R30
+ denotes the share holdings, whereR+ is the set of non-negative
real numbers.
• Action at∈ R30 denotes the trading operations on the 30 stocks, i.e.,
ht+1 = ht + at. When an entryai
t > 0,i = 1,..., 30, it means a buy-in of
ai
t shares on thei-th stock, negative actionai
t < 0 for selling, and zero
action ai
t = 0 keeps hi
t unchanged.
• Reward functionR(st, at, st+1)∈ R: Reward is an incentive signal to
encourage the trading agent to execute actionat at state st. In the stock

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning11
trading task [14], the reward function is set to be the change of total asset
values, i.e.,R(st, at, st+1) = vt+1−vt, wherevt and vt+1 are the total
asset values at statest and st+1, respectively, i.e.,vt = p⊺
t ht +bt∈ R.
Example II. Another task is portfolio optimization, also on the 30 con-
stituent stocks of the Dow Johnes Industrial Average (DJIA) index. The
"state-action-reward" are speciﬁed as follows:
• State st = [vt, pt, ft, wt]∈ R30(I+2)+1, where pt∈ R30
+ is the current
prices of 30 stocks, ft∈ R30·I is a feature vector and each stock hasI
technical indicators, wt∈ R30 is the portfolio weight allocated on last
time, andvt =vt−1w⊺
t−1pt/pt−1 is the total asset value at timet.
• Action at∈ R30 denotes the new weights assigned to each of the 30 stocks.
Note there are always ∑30
i=1 ai
t = 1. Each ai
t > 0 means allocating ai
t
amount of total asset on thei-th stock. Afterat is applied, wt+1 in the
state will record the newat, andvt+1 will be recalculated.
• Reward functionR(st, at, st+1)∈ R: Similar to the stock trading task,
the reward of portfolio optimization task is also set to be the change of
total asset values.
3.2 FinRL Challenges
Training and testing environments based on historical data may not simulate
real markets accurately due to thesimulation-to-reality gap[22, 23], and thus a
trained agent cannot be directly deployed in real-world markets. We summarize
the main FinRL challenges as follows:
• Low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR): Data from diﬀerent sources may con-
tain large noise [49] such as random noise, outliers, etc. It is challenging to
identify alpha signals or build smart beta indices using noisy datasets.
• Survivorship bias of historical market data: Survivorship bias is caused
by a tendency to focus on existing stocks and funds without consideration of
those that are delisted [50]. It could lead to an overestimation of stocks and
funds, which will mislead the agent.
• Model overﬁtting: Existing research mainly report backtesting results.
It is highly possible that authors are tempted to tune hyper-parameters
and retrain the agent multiple times5 to obtain better backtesting results,
resulting in model overﬁtting [51, 52]. This might lead to big trouble during
real-time trading.
• Delay: Financial markets have delays due to data transmission, reward feed-
back, and actuation. The true reward may be based on the users’ interaction
with the markets, which may take several days. As the delay increases, the
performance of deep reinforcement learning decreases.
• Partial observation: The full observability assumption of ﬁnancial mar-
kets can be extended to partial observation (the underlying states cannot
be directly observed), i.e., partially observable Markov Decision Process
(POMDP). A POMDP model utilizes a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) [53] to
5There is information leakage.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
12 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Fig. 3 Overview of FinRL-Meta framework, an automatic data curation pipeline.
model a time series that is caused by a sequence of unobservable states. Con-
sidering the noisy ﬁnancial data, it is natural to assume that a trading agent
cannot directly observe market states. Studies suggested that the POMDP
model can be solved by using recurrent neural networks, e.g., an oﬀ-policy
Recurrent Deterministic Policy Gradient (RDPG) algorithm [54], and a long
short-term memory (LSTM) network that encodes partial observations into
a state of a reinforcement learning algorithm [55].
• Multi-objective reward function: When we optimize one metric, some
other metrics may need to be constrained or improved. Therefore, a trade-oﬀ
between these metrics may be required. In addition, the reward formulation
involves the weights of metrics, i.e., the weights should be ﬁne-tuned manually.
• Low interpretability: In deep reinforcement learning, neural networks are
used to ﬁt the Q-value functions and policies. However, neural networks are
black-box; therefore, deep reinforcement learning is of low interpretability.
3.3 Overview of FinRL-Meta Framework
Following the DataOps paradigm in Fig. 1 and the standard process of data-
centric AI [25], FinRL-Meta builds a universe of market environments for
data-driven ﬁnancial reinforcement learning. FinRL-Meta follows thede facto
standard of OpenAI Gym [37] and thelean principleof software development.
We have an automatic pipeline using the dynamic dataset with the following
steps: 1). task planning, 2). data processing, 3). training-testing-trading pipeline,
4). performance monitoring.
3.3.1 Layer Structure and Extensibility
We adopt a layered structure that consists of three layers, data layer, envi-
ronment layer, and agent layer, as shown in Fig. 3. Layers interact through
end-to-end interfaces, achieving high extensibility. For updates and substitutes
inside a layer, this structure minimizes the impact on the whole system. More-
over, the layer structure allows easy extension of user-deﬁned functions and
fast updating of algorithms with high performance.
Data Layer: we follow the DataOps paradigm for data curation to reduce
the cycle time of data engineering and improve data quality. First, in the data
processing step, we provide APIs to collect time series price data and sentiment

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning13
Training
Testing
Fine 
Tuning
Past
Future
Trading
Trained
 
Model
Fig. 4 Overview of the training-testing-trading pipeline in FinRL-Meta.
data from diﬀerent platforms with a uniﬁed interface. Second, the data cleaning
step will clean up the raw data, which is usually unstructured and contain
diﬀerent kinds of errors. Third, we will add technical indicators to the data to
provide more information on the market in the feature engineering step.
Environment Layer: The well-processed data from the data layer will be
made into a gym-style market environment in the environment layer. According
to the chosen task, state-action-reward will be set. FinRL-Meta also provides
the option of multiprocessing training via vector environment to accelerate the
training process.
Agent Layer: we allow a user to plug in a DRL agent and play with a
market environment from the environment layer. Currently, three libraries are
supported, including Stable-baseline 3, RLlib, and ElegantRL. We call this
plug-and-play mode, which will be introduced in detail later.
3.3.2 Dynamic Datasets and T raining-T esting-T rading
Pipeline
For dynamic ﬁnancial data, it is crucial to keep the model learning the latest
information from the market. However, it will be very time-consuming to
process data and train the model frequently. Thus, FinRL-Meta brings forward
the concept of the dynamic dataset.
The dynamic dataset is a standardized workﬂow of downloading and process-
ing data following the need for a “training-testing-trading” pipeline periodically.
This makes the time of training controllable.
As shown in Fig. 4, we deploy a training-testing-trading pipeline. The DRL
approach follows a standard end-to-end pipeline. The DRL agent is ﬁrst trained
in a training environment and then ﬁned-tuned (adjusting hyperparameters)
in a validation environment. Then the validated agent is tested on historical
datasets (backtesting). Finally, the tested agent will be deployed in paper
trading or live trading markets. Our construction of a dynamic dataset ﬁts the
training-testing-trading pipeline well, providing a potential standard workﬂow
of ﬁnancial reinforcement learning.
3.3.3 Plug-and-play Mode for DRL Algorithms
A DRL agent can be directly plugged in the above training-testing-trading
pipeline. The following DRL libraries are supported:

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
14 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Feature Engineering     
Data Accessing               
Data Cleaning   
MarketsType
Data Frequency          
Cryptocurrency
 Forex
CN Securities
US Stocks
Merge different data tablesRemove duplicates
Data Sources           
QuantConnect
WRDS
Baostock
1 day
1 minute
Fixer
ETFs
Binance
1 second
1 millisecond
Alpaca
Data Layer
YahooFinance
pandas_datareader
pandas-finance 1 quarter
ystockquote
Marketstack
Quandl
Polygon
JointQuant
RiceQuant
Tushare
AkShare
CCXT
Finnhub
Tiingo
Alpha Vantage
IEXCloud
EOD Historical Data
 Findatapy
 Financial Modeling prep
Exchangerates
currencylayer
currencyapi
Xignite
Open Exchange Rates
Handle missing data
Financial Ratios, Assets, Liabilities, Sales Open-High-Low-Close-Volume
Fundemental Features
Social Media, ESG, Google Trends News Sentiment
Market Features Analytics FeaturesAlternative Features
Fig. 5 Data layer of FinRL-Meta.
• ElegantRL [40]: Lightweight, eﬃcient and stable algorithms using PyTorch.
• Stable-Baselines3 [38]: Improved DRL algorithms based on OpenAI
Baselines.
• RLlib [39]: An open-source DRL library that oﬀers high scalability and
uniﬁed APIs.
Take the stock trading task described in Section 3.1 as an example. We
ﬁrst download and preprocess the historical data of the 30 constituent stocks
of the DJIA index. Then, we construct an environment with the state-action-
reward speciﬁed in Section 4. Given this environment, we choose an algorithm
from one of the above three DRL libraries, plug it in with default parameters,
and train a trading agent. Users could compare the performances of diﬀerent
algorithms from the same library or diﬀerent libraries.
4 Automatic Data Curation Pipeline for Market
Environments
Financial big data is usually unstructured, which makes data curation necessary.
Following the principles of data-centric AI [24–26], we construct an automatic
data curation pipeline to process and engineer data. Speciﬁcally, we process four
types of data [52], including fundamental data (e.g., earning reports), market
data (e.g., OHLCV data), analytics (e.g., news sentiment), and alternative
data (e.g., social media data, ESG data). In addition, we incorporate NLP
features for ﬁnancial sentiment analysis. We build market environments using
these features, by following OpenAI gym-style APIs [37].

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning15
T able 2 Supported data sources. OHLCV means open, high, low, and close prices;
volume data.
Data Source Type Max Frequency Raw Data Preprocessed Data
Alpaca US Stocks, ETFs 1 min OHLCV Prices, indicators
Baostock CN Securities 5 min OHLCV Prices, indicators
Binance Cryptocurrency 1 s OHLCV Prices, indicators
CCXT Cryptocurrency 1 min OHLCV Prices, indicators
IEXCloud NMS US securities 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
JoinQuant CN Securities 1 min OHLCV Prices, indicators
QuantConnect US Securities 1 s OHLCV Prices, indicators
RiceQuant CN Securities 1 ms OHLCV Prices, indicators
Tushare CN Securities 1 min OHLCV Prices, indicators
WRDS US Securities 1 ms Intraday Trades Prices, indicators
YahooFinance US Securities 1 min OHLCV Prices, indicators
AkShare CN Securities 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
ﬁndatapy CN Securities 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
pandas_datareader US Securities 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
pandas-ﬁnance US Securities 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
ystockquote US Securities 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
Marketstack 50+ countries 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
ﬁnnhub US Stocks, currencies, crypto 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
Financial Modeling prep US stocks, currencies, crypto 1 min OHLCV Prices, indicators
EOD Historical Data US stocks, and ETFs 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
Alpha Vantage Stock, ETF, forex, crypto, technical indicators 1 min OHLCV Prices, indicators
Tiingo Stocks, crypto 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
Quandl 250+ sources 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
Polygon US Securities 1 day OHLCV Prices, indicators
ﬁxer Exchange rate 1 day Exchange rate Exchange rate, indicators
Exchangerates Exchange rate 1 day Exchange rate Exchange rate, indicators
Fixer Exchange rate 1 day Exchange rate Exchange rate, indicators
currencylayer Exchange rate 1 day Exchange rate Exchange rate, indicators
currencyapi Exchange rate 1 day Exchange rate Exchange rate, indicators
Open Exchange Rates Exchange rate 1 day Exchange rate Exchange rate, indicators
XE Exchange rate 1 day Exchange rate Exchange rate, indicators
Xignite Exchange rate 1 day Exchange rate Exchange rate, indicators
4.1 Data Layer for Processing and Engineering Highly
Unstructured Financial Big Data
Following the training data development pipeline in data-centric AI [25], we
develop a data layer using DataOps practices [28], shown in Fig. 5. We establish
a standard pipeline for ﬁnancial data engineering, which processes data from
diﬀerent sources into a uniﬁed market environment. The pipeline involves a
data accessing module to collect data, as well as data cleaning and feature
engineering modules to prepare data and transform it into a form that is
appropriate for FinRL model training.
4.1.1 Data Accessing
Users can connect data APIs of diﬀerent market platforms in Table 2 via our
common interfaces. Users can access data agilely by specifying the start date,
end date, stock list, time interval, and other parameters. FinRL-Meta has
supported more than30 data sources, covering stocks, cryptocurrencies, ETFs,
forex, etc.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
16 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
4.1.2 Data Cleaning
Raw data retrieved from diﬀerent data sources are usually of various formats
and with erroneous or missing data to diﬀerent extents. It makes data cleaning
highly time-consuming. With a data processor, we automate the data-cleaning
process. In addition, we use stock ticker names and data frequency as unique
identiﬁers to merge all types of data into a uniﬁed data table.
4.1.3 F eature Engineering
Feature engineering is an important step in training data development [25].
Deep learning-based feature engineering has great potential to automate the
design of technical indicators [56, 57]. FinRL-Meta aggregates eﬀective features
to help improve model predictive performance. FinRL-Meta currently supports
ﬁve types of features:
• Market features: Open-high-low-close price and volume data are the typical
market data we can directly get from querying the data API. They have
various data frequencies, such as daily prices from YahooFinance, and TAQ
(Millisecond Trade and Quote) from WRDS. In addition, we automate the
calculation of technical indicators based on OHLCV data by connecting
the Stockstats6 or TA-lib library7 in our data processor, such as Moving
Average Convergence Divergence (MACD), Average Directional Index (ADX),
Commodity Channel Index (CCI), etc.
• Fundamental features: Fundamental features are processed based on the
earnings data in SEC ﬁlings queried from WRDS. The data frequency is low,
typically quarterly, e.g., four data points in a year. To avoid information
leakage, we use a two-month lag beyond the standard quarter end date,
e.g., Apple released its earnings report on 2022/07/28 for the third quarter
(2022/06/25) of the year 2022. Thus for the quarter between 04/01 and
06/30, our trade date is adjusted to 09/01 (same method for the other three
quarters). We also provide functions in our data processor for calculating
ﬁnancial ratios based on earnings data such as earnings per share (EPS),
return on asset (ROA), price to earnings (P/E) ratio, net proﬁt margin,
quick ratio, etc.
• Analytics features: We provide news sentiment for analytics features.
First, we get the news headline and content from WRDS [58]. Next, we use
NLTK.Vader8 to calculate sentiment based on the sentiment compound score
of a span of text by normalizing the emotion intensity (positive, negative,
neutral) of each word. For the time alignment with market data, we use
the exact enter time, i.e., when the news enters the database and becomes
available, to match the trade time. For example, if the trade time is every
ten minutes, we collect the previous ten minutes’ news based on the enter
time; if no news is detected, then we ﬁll the sentiment with 0.
6Github repo: https://github.com/jealous/stockstats
7Github repo: https://github.com/mrjbq7/ta-lib
8Github repo: https://github.com/nltk/nltk

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning17
• Alternative features: Alternative features are useful but hard to obtain
from diﬀerent data sources [52], such as ESG data, social media data, Google
trend searches, etc. ESG (Environmental, social, governance) data are widely
used to measure the sustainability and societal impacts of investment. The
ESG data we provide is from the Microsoft Academic Graph database, which
is an open-resource database with records of scholarly publications. We have
functions in our data processor to extract AI publication and patent data,
such as paper citations, publication counts, patent counts, etc. We believe
these features reﬂect companies’ research and development capacity for AI
technologies [59, 60]. It is a good reﬂection of ESG research commitment.
• Natural language processing (NLP) features: We employ NLP meth-
ods to extract patterns from many sources such as Twitter, Weibo, Google
Trends, and Sina ﬁnance. NLP [61] greatly improves the eﬃciency of data
processing, and reduces the labor of reading texts, websites, videos, and so on.
NLP in ﬁnance can provide meaningful insights, e.g., sentiment analysis and
question-answering like ChatGPT [8], and GPT-4 [9] when making decisions.
NLP features are extracted from a large amount of raw data, and reﬂect the
states, predictions, and emotions of traders, governments, ﬁnancial institu-
tions, etc. We list several NLP features here: number of comments, number
of replies, number of praise/dispraise, and number of optimism/pessimism.
Apart from the above default features, users can quickly add customized
features using open-source libraries or add user-deﬁned features. New features
can be added in two ways: 1) Write a user-deﬁned feature extraction function.
The returned features are added to a feature array. 2) Store the features in a
ﬁle, and put it in a default folder. Then, an agent can read these features from
the ﬁle.
4.2 Financial Sentiment Analysis
In addition to the features collected directly from the market data, we also
perform sentiment analysis on other data sources, and the output sentiment
score serves as another feature. FinRL-Meta investigates the potential extension
of sentiment analysis to the ﬁnancial market context and assesses its impact
on automated trading. In addition to market data such as price and volume,
NLP features can provide complementary information. The use of market
data alone is inadequate in capturing unexpected market events, news, and
company announcements, leading to a diminished capacity of trading strategies
to respond to unpredictable stock price ﬂuctuations. The incorporation of
NLP features, speciﬁcally news, social media, company announcement, and
trends sentiments, can help investors analyze market trends and facilitate the
examination of the interplay between textual data and stock prices.
Previous studies have extensively investigated the use of NLP techniques and
sentiment analysis in stock price prediction and automated trading strategies.
In a review study, [61] summarized the NLFF (Natural Language Processing
for Financial Forecasting) methodologies and their applications in related work.
They organized and categorized these techniques into two primary groups:

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
18 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Sentiment Analysis      
Word-Level Sentiment Analysis    
Text Preprocessing      
Financial Words Filter
TokenizationAbbreviation Fixing
Lower-casing, Punctuation, Number Removement
Company Name ReplacementLemmatization
NLTK.VADER
Sentence-Level Sentiment Analysis    
Verb Valence Shifter
 NLTK.VADER
Weighted-Average Sentiment Score
Output Sentiment Score
Score Aggregation
Input Raw Text
Fig. 6 Lexicon-based sentiment analysis framework.
1) Lexicon-based, which utilizes pre-trained ﬁnancial sentiment orientation
dictionaries [62] to label word segments with sentiment scores; and 2) Auto-
matic Labeling, which employs label propagation frameworks to automatically
construct lexicons for the ﬁnancial domain using seed words [63, 64]. The
lexicon-based approach has the advantage of analyzing texts at the word or
sentence level by labeling groups of seed word segments with positive, nega-
tive, or neutral sentiments and assigning polarity scores to individual words to
represent sentiment strengths.
Our observation of ﬁnancial news revealed that the majority of sentiments
are expressed through a small group of signaling words related to trading
actions, such as ‘rise’ and ‘drop’. To address this characteristic, we recognized
the need for word-level adjustments of sentiment weights for each word segment.
As a result, we decided to use the lexicon-based approach in our study. However,
we acknowledge that this approach has two major drawbacks: 1) words can
have multiple meanings and sentiment strengths in diﬀerent contexts, and 2)
the meaning and sense of a word that is common in one domain, such as e-
commerce, may not be common in ﬁnance. To overcome these challenges, we
explore a specialized framework of lexicon-based sentiment analysis.
In FinRL-Meta, we propose a lexicon-based sentiment analysis framework
that is speciﬁcally designed for NLP features. To achieve this, we created a
customized sentiment dictionary tailored to the characteristics of the ﬁnancial
sector. Our aim is to improve the accuracy of sentiment classiﬁcation beyond
what has been achieved by previous NLP sentiment models by optimizing and
extending the existing sentiment analysis framework while adapting it to the
textual features of ﬁnancial news.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning19
4.2.1 Lexicon-based Sentiment Analysis F ramework
Fig.6illustratesthestructureofourlexicon-basedsentimentanalysisframework,
which comprises two main stages: text preprocessing and multi-level sentiment
analysis. The text pre-processing stage involves ﬁve speciﬁc procedures aimed
at transforming unstructured news text into cleaned, structured text vectors
suitable for sentiment analysis.
• 1) In the tokenization stage, the raw texts are tokenized to split them
into sentence and word segments, which are then respectively parsed into
word-level and sentence-level sentiment analysis functions.
• 2) Abbreviation Fixing is performed to restore abbreviations containing
valuable sentiment signaling words to their complete expressions, enabling
the sentiment analysis algorithm to capture all sentiment signaling words.
• 3) Lower-casing, Punctuation, and Number Removement are conducted
to normalize word segments into their lower-cased format and remove
unnecessary punctuation and numbers that contain no sentiment values.
• 4) Company Name Replacement is carried out to remove company names that
contain sentiment-sensitive terms, and replace them with a term containing
no sentiment sensitivity, such as “Company Target” or “Company Random”.
• 5) Lemmatization is employed to group together the inﬂected forms of a word
so they can be analyzed as a single item, identiﬁed by the word’s lemma.
Unlike stemming which reduces all terms to their word stem, lemmatization
restores each word to its lemma form based on its part of speech tagging.
For instance, the word “developed” is tagged as VERB and restored to the
lemma “develop”. The word “development” is tagged as NOUN and restored
to “development”. Since diﬀerent inﬂected forms of a word demonstrate
distinctive sentiment polarities, the lemmatization method is used instead of
stemming.
The sentiment analysis stage of text data involves transforming word and
sentence vectors obtained during text preprocessing into corresponding senti-
ment scores, which are then aggregated to obtain the overall sentiment score.
This stage employs distinct methodologies for word and sentence vectors.
• 1) For the word vectors, to ﬁlter out irrelevant word segments and concentrate
on ﬁnance-speciﬁc sentiment signaling words, we utilized the LoughranMc-
Donald MasterDictionary [61] with over 80,000 core ﬁnancial terms as the
base ﬁnancial corpus. We then computed word-level sentiment scores using
the VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary for Sentiment Reasoning) model in
NLTK [65].
• 2)Forsentencevectors,wecustomizedandadjustedtheintensitiesofsignaling
words based on sentence logic and semantics using the Adverb Valence
Shifter mechanism in the VADER package [65]. To incorporate sentiment-
strengthening or weakening terms like “hardly” and “signiﬁcantly”, we also
implemented the Verb Valence Shifter mechanism which identiﬁed the verb
and noun words as the sentence separator for each input sentence. After
adjusting the internal sentiment weights of each sentence, we devised rules

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
20 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Dictionary Expansion         
Unlabeled Financial Words Filtering(23,690 words)
Synonym Matching(4,129 pairs)
Synonym Pair Filtering(1,443 pairs)
Manual Checking(555 words)
Final Sentiment Dictionary
NTUSD-Fin Sentiment Dictionary
Dictionary Merging & Conflicting Sentiment Correction
NLTK VADER Sentiment Dictionarly
LoughranMcDonald MasterDictionary
 NLTK Wordnet
 NLTK Wordnet & Textblob.Sentiment
Fig. 7 Financial sentiment dictionary.
to assign weights to diﬀerent sentences and aggregate the sentence vectors
to obtain sentence-level sentiment scores.
4.2.2 Financial Sentiment Dictionary Construction
The sentiment dictionary is the foundation for lexicon-based sentiment analysis,
containing information about the emotions or polarity expressed by words,
phrases, or concepts. As noted in the previous section, one of the major obstacles
associated with the lexical annotation approach is that the sentiment intensity
and polarity of a given word often vary across diﬀerent domains. For example,
in e-commerce, the term “bull” usually refers to an animal species, while in
the ﬁnance domain, it signiﬁes an inclination for a speciﬁc market, security, or
industry to rise.
We create a ﬁnancial sentiment dictionary by customizing and expanding
two existing sentiment dictionaries, as shown in Fig. 7. The construction process
involved two stages: dictionary merge and dictionary expansion. During the
ﬁrst stage, we merged the NTUSD-Fin Sentiment Dictionary with the built-in
dictionary of the NLTK VADER package. The NTUSD-Fin dictionary [66]
is a sentiment dictionary speciﬁcally designed for ﬁnance, comprising labels
for 8,331 words, 112 hashtags, and 115 emojis, and providing multiple scoring
techniques, such as frequency, CFIDF, chi-squared value, market sentiment
score, and word vector for tokens. The VADER sentiment dictionary [65],
created based on social media texts, includes 7,502 labeled words. Throughout
the merging process, we detected and manually ﬁxed 479 contradictions in the
semantic polarities of words between the two dictionaries.
We also observe that certain ﬁnancial terms with sentiment values were not
accurately captured by the merged sentiment corpus, such as “bullish”, “bearish”,
“outperform”, “outgrowth”, “high”, and “rise”. Consequently, in the second stage

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning21
of the construction process, the dictionary was expanded to label more ﬁnancial
words with sentiment polarity and intensities through a synonym-matching
mechanism. This process involved four main steps.
• 1) Unlabeled Financial Words Filtering: the LoughranMcDonald MasterDic-
tionary [61], which contains over 80,000 core ﬁnancial words, was utilized
as the base ﬁnancial corpus to ﬁlter out relevant ﬁnancial words without
attached sentiment polarities, resulting in 23,690 words being ﬁltered out.
• 2) Synonym Matching: to assign sentiment polarity and intensity scores to
the unlabeled words, the NLTK Wordnet was used to match each word with
its labeled synonym. The WordNet [67] is an extensive lexical database of
English words that groups nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs into sets of
cognitive synonyms called “synsets”, each expressing a distinct concept. In
this step, the 23,690 unlabeled words were matched with their synonym lists
recommended by the WordNet Synset database, and word-synonym pairs
with labeled synonyms were selected. This resulted in 4,129 word-synonym
pairs being ﬁltered out.
• 3) Synonym Pair Filtering: an algorithm was developed to further ﬁlter
out words with the highest sentiment values from the remaining 4,129
word-synonym pairs. This algorithm utilized the TextBlob [68] subjectiv-
ity indicator and synonym path similarity indicator to identify the most
sentiment-rich word-synonym pairs. The algorithm iterated through all words,
checking their related synonyms and selecting the synonym with the highest
similarity score in the SentiWordNet synonym network. After computing the
subjectivity of each word, those with a subjectivity value of less than 0.2 were
excluded. This step resulted in 1,443 word-synonym pairs being ﬁltered out.
• 4) Manual Checking: each word-synonym-sentiment pair was manually
checked, along with its actual usage in the real news context. If the path
similarity between the word and its synonym was less than 0.5, its matched
sentiment score was adjusted based on its meaning in the context. After this
manual checking step, 555 words were selected as the ﬁnal extended semantic
dictionary.
To evaluate sentiment analysis accuracy involving both sentiment polarities
and strengths, we conduct an experiment based on the news headlines corpus
used in SemEval-2007 dataset [69], which includes 1000 news headlines manually
annotated with sentiment scores on six emotion categories: Anger, Disgust,
Fear, Joy, Sadness, and Surprise. The sentiment scores range from -100 (highly
negative) to 100 (highly positive), with 0 indicating neutral valence. Of the
1000 headlines, 468 have a positive valence, 526 have a negative valence, and 6
have a neutral valence. For this experiment, only headlines with clear positive
emotions (sentiment valence of 50 to 100) and negative emotions (sentiment
valence of -100 to -50) were selected, resulting in a dataset of 410 headlines,
consisting of 155 positive and 255 negative headlines.
The evaluation results of the experiment are presented in Table 3. Two
metrics were used to assess the accuracy of the sentiment analysis approaches

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
22 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Approach Polarity Accuracy Valence Correlation
NLTK VADER (Baseline) 0.60 0.66
With Verb Valence Shifter 0.62 0.67
With Financial sentiment
dictionary(OurApproach)
0.74 0.70
T able 3 Evaluation Result of Financial Sentiment Analysis.
Polarity Accuracy, which measures the proportion of predicted polarity (neg-
ative, neutral, and positive) that matches the labeled polarity, and Valence
Correlation, which measures the correlation between predicted valence scores
(ranging from -1 to 1) and labeled valence scores (ranging from -100 to 100),
indicating the accuracy of the prediction of news sentiment intensities. As
shown in the table, our sentiment analysis approach outperforms the baseline
approach in terms of both Polarity Accuracy and Valence Correlation.
4.3 Environment Layer for Dynamic Market
Environments
FinRL-Meta follows the OpenAI gym-style [37] to create market environments
using the cleaned data from the data layer. It provides hundreds of environ-
ments with a common interface. Users can build their environments using
FinRL-Meta’s interfaces, share their results and compare a strategy’s trad-
ing performance. Following the gym-style [37], each environment has three
functions as follows:
• reset() function resets the environment back to the initial states0
• step() function takes an actionat from the agent and updates state from
st to st+1.
• reward() function computes the reward value transforming fromst to st+1
by actionat.
Detailed descriptions can be found in [15][51].
We plan to add more environments for users’ convenience. For example, we
are actively building market simulators using limit-order-book data (refer to
Appx. 5.2.6), where we simulate the market from the playback of historical
limit-order-book-level data and an order matching mechanism. We foresee the
ﬂexibility and potential of using a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) [53] or a
generative adversarial net (GAN) [70] to generate market scenarios [33].
Incorporating trading constraints to model market frictions: To
better simulate real-world markets, we incorporate common market frictions
(e.g., transaction costs and investor risk aversion) and portfolio restrictions
(e.g., non-negative balance).
• Flexible account settings: Users can choose whether to allow buying on
margin or short-selling.
• Transaction cost: We incorporate the transaction cost to reﬂect market
friction, e.g., 0.1% of each buy or sell trade.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning23
• Risk-control for market crash: In FinRL [1, 20], a turbulence index [71]
is used to control risk during market crash situations. However, calculating
the turbulence index is time-consuming. It may take minutes, which is not
suitable for paper trading and live trading. We replace the ﬁnancial turbulence
index with the volatility index (VIX) [72] that can be accessed immediately.
Multiprocessing training via vectorized environments: We utilize
GPUs for multiprocessing training, namely, the vectorized environments tech-
nique of Isaac Gym [73], which signiﬁcantly accelerates the training process.
In each CUDA core, a trading agent interacts with a market environment to
produce transitions in the form of{state, action, reward, next state}. Then,
all the transitions are stored in a replay buﬀer and later are used to update a
learner. By adopting this technique in our market simulator, we successfully
achieve the multiprocessing simulation of hundreds of market environments to
improve the performance of DRL trading agents on large datasets.
5 Homegrown Examples and Tutorials
We provide several homegrown examples and a dozen of tutorials, which serve
as stepping stones for newcomers. We reproduce popular papers as benchmarks
for follow-up research.
5.1 Performance Metrics and Baseline Methods
We provide the following metrics to measure the trading performance:
• Cumulative returnR = v−v0
v0
, wherev is the ﬁnal portfolio value, andv0
is the original capital.
• Annualized returnr = (1 +R)
365
t − 1, wheret is the number of trading
days.
• Annualized volatility σa =
√ ∑n
i=1 (ri−¯r)2
n−1 , where ri is the annualized
return in yeari, ¯r is the average annualized return, andn is the number of
years.
• Sharpe ratio[74]ST = mean(Rt)−rf
std(Rt) , whereRt = vt−vt−1
vt−1
,rf is the risk-free
rate, andt = 1,...,T .
• Max. drawdown: The maximal percentage loss in portfolio value.
The following baseline trading strategies are provided for comparison:
• Passive trading strategy[75] is a well-known long-term strategy. The
investors just buy and hold selected stocks or indexes without further
activities.
• Mean-variance and min-variance strategy[76] are two widely used
strategies that look for a balance between risks and proﬁts. They select a
diversiﬁed portfolio in order to achieve higher proﬁts at a lower risk.
• Equally weighted strategyis a portfolio allocation strategy that gives
equal weights to diﬀerent assets, avoiding allocating overly high weights on
particular stocks.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
24 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Fig. 8 Demos of FinRL-Meta, organized in a curriculum structure.
Fig. 9 Reproducing the stock trading of [14].
5.2 Homegrown Examples
For educational purposes, we provide Jupyter/Python as tutorials9 to help
newcomers get familiar with the whole pipeline.
In Section 2.3, we have described the RLOps paradigm. Here we will
demonstrate how to use RLOps in practice by reproducing several prior papers.
We have reproduced experiments in several papers as benchmarks. Users can
study our codes for research purposes or use them as stepping stones for
deploying trading strategies in live markets. In this subsection, we describe
several home-grown examples in detail, in a sequence of simple to advanced.
Users could choose the one to learn and run based on their proﬁciency.
5.2.1 Stock T rading T ask
The stock trading task is one of the most classical problems in FinRL-Meta.
The goal is to train a DRL agent to decide the time, ticker, and amount to buy
and sell on the stock market.
9https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinRL-Tutorials

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning25
Fig. 10 Data split for a window that consists of training, testing, and trading.
First, users can use the APIs provided by FinRL-Meta to fetch historical
OHLCV (open, high, low, close prices, and volume) data of the stocks from
data platforms like Yahoo Finance. After data cleaning and feature engineering,
which checks the error and missing data, and then technical indicators are
added.
Second, FinRL-Meta will split the processed data into training and testing,
and construct a gym-style market environment for each, with the state-action-
reward speciﬁed in Section 3.1. Then, we are able to choose algorithms from
any one of the DRL libraries and train the agents of these algorithms in the
market environment.
Lastly, after we obtain the trained agents, we backtest the agents on the
environment with testing data. During backtesting, the performance of the
agents will be compared with the performance of several baselines, such as
DJIA index, mean-variance, and equally weighted.
In FinRL-Meta’s demo, after fetching from Yahoo! Finance, we use the data
from 01/01/2011 to 07/01/2021 for training and the data from 07/01/2021
to 11/01/2022 for trading. The technical indicators in the state space include
the following, Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD), Relative
Strength Index (RSI), Commodity Channel Index (CCI), Average Directional
Index (ADX), etc. All these data will be sealed in a gym-style environment.
During the training phase, we utilized dynamic datasets with a rolling
window of 22 trading days and trained ﬁve diﬀerent deep reinforcement learning
(DRL) algorithms (A2C, DDPG, TD3, PPO, and SAC) in the environment.
Fig. 9 displays the comparison of their performances with the baseline DJIA
index after backtesting all the agents. The best agent was found to be A2C,
achieving a return of 0.102 compared to DJI’s return of 0.030. This demo
provides a detailed walkthrough of how DRL operates in the stock trading
task and serves as a benchmark for subsequent works in the ﬁeld of ﬁnancial
reinforcement learning [14]. This benchmark is beneﬁcial for getting into the
ﬁeld of ﬁnancial reinforcement learning.
5.2.2 T rading in Real Time
Practical tasks like stock trading and cryptocurrency trading suﬀer from the
false positive issue due to overﬁtting, where an agent might perform well on
testing data but not on real-world markets. Since backtesting has problems of
information leakage and overﬁtting, its results is not persuasive to show the
quality of trained models. Thus, we propose to deploy DRL agent on paper
trading.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
26 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Algorithm 1Algorithm for stock trading in real time
1: Initialize a set of hyper-parameters;
2: for d = 0 to D− 1 do
3: # Step 1). Train an agent
4: Using data period[d−S−N,d−S− 1] to train an agent,
5: Using data period [d−S,d− 1] to test the trained agent and adjust
hyper-parameters,
6: # Step 2). Retrain the agent
7: Using data period [d−S−N,d − 1] to retrain the agent with the
adjusted hyper-parameters,
8: # Step 3). Perform paper trading for one day
9: Using the trained agent to trade in thed-th day.
10: end for
Fig. 10 shows our “training-testing-trading” pipeline. In a window, there
are N days’ data for training andS days’ data for testing. At the end of a
window, we perform paper trading for1 day. Note that we always retrain the
agent usingN +S days of training and testing data together. Then, we roll
the window forward by1 day ahead and perform the above steps for a new
window. Paper trading is always carried out for1 day. Therefore,D windows
correspond toD trading days.
Alg. 1 summarizes the pipeline of paper trading. ForD trading days from
0 to D− 1, we keep doing the following three steps:
• Step 1). Download and processN-day data, from dayd−S−N to day
d−S− 1. Then build the data into a gym-style environment and train
the agent. Then download and process S-day data, from dayd−S to day
d− 1. Then build the data into a gym-style environment and validate how
the agent performs. According to the agent’s performance on the validation
environment, adjust hyper-parameters.
• Step 2). Build the training and testing data, totallyN +S days from day
d−S−N to dayd− 1 (note that there are390 data points for each day’s
minute-level data), into a gym-style environment. Update hyper-parameters
to the values chosen fromStep 1). Then retrain the agent on theseN +S-day
environments.
• Step 3). Deploy the trained agent to the paper trading market and trade
from 9:30 am to 4:00 pm.
For the experiment, we select Dow Jones 30 stocks as our trading stocks
and use minute-level historical market data from08/24/2022 to 09/09/2022.
The data are downloaded from Alpaca10. Then, we use the paper trading APIs
provided by Alpaca to do paper trading from09/01/2022 to 09/12/2022. The
cumulative return of our PPO method and conventional random forest method
is shown in Fig. 11.
10Web page of Alpaca: https://alpaca.markets/

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning27
Fig. 11 Stock trading in real-time: cumulative returns for a conventional ML method
(random forest) VS. our trained PPO agent.
5.2.3 Ensemble Strategy
Based on the stock trading task, the ensemble method [15] combines diﬀerent
agents to obtain an adaptive one, which inherits the best features of agents and
performs remarkably well in practice. We consider three component algorithms,
Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), Advantage Actor-Critic (A2C), and Deep
Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG), which have diﬀerent strengths and
weaknesses. Using a rolling window, an ensemble agent automatically selects
the best model for each test period. Again on the 30 constituent stocks of the
DJIA index, we use data from 01/01/2010 to 07/01/2022 for training and data
from 07/01/2022 to 01/01/2023 for validation and testing through a quarterly
rolling window.
From Fig. 12, we observe that the ensemble agent outperforms other agents.
In the experiment, the return of the ensemble strategy is0.157, while DJI is
0.068. The ensemble agent has the highest return, which means it performs
the best in proﬁts. This benchmark demonstrates that the ensemble strategy
is eﬀective in constructing a more reliable agent based on several components
of DRL agents.
5.2.4 Podracer on Cloud
We reproduce cloud solutions of population-based training, e.g., generational
evolution [77] and tournament-based evolution [78]. FinRL-Podracer can easily
scale out to≥ 1000 GPUs, which features high scalability, elasticity and
accessibility by following the cloud-native principle. If GPUs are abundant,
users can take advantage of this benchmark to work on high-frequency trading
tasks. On an NVIDIA SuperPOD cloud, we conducted extensive experiments

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
28 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
Fig. 12 Reproducing the ensemble strategy of [15].
on stock trading and found that it substantially outperforms competitors, such
as OpenAI and RLlib [77]. Detailed instructions are provided on our website.
Benchmarks on cloud: We provide demos on a cloud platform, Weights
& Biases11, to demonstrate the training process. We deﬁne the hyperparameter
sweep, training function, and initialize an agent to train and tune hyperparam-
eters. On the cloud platform Weights & Biases, users are able to visualize their
results and assess the relative performance via community-wise competitions.
5.2.5 Curriculum Learning for Generalizable Agents
Based on FinRL-Meta (a universe of market environments, say≥ 100), one
is able to construct an environment by sampling data from multiple market
datasets, similar to XLand [79]. In this way, one can apply the curriculum
learning method [79] to train a generally capable agent for several ﬁnancial
tasks.
5.2.6 Market Simulator
Gym market environments: We build all of our environments following
OpenAI-gym style [37]. The ﬁrst reason is that this makes it convenient for
plugging in any of the three DRL libraries (Stable Baseline3, RLlib, and
ElegantRL). Another reason is that it is user-friendly. Newcomers can learn
our environments fast and then build their own task-speciﬁc environments
eﬃciently.
Synthetic data generation: We create a market simulator [19] to simulate
the markets from the playback of historical limit-order-book-level data and
the order matching mechanism. Currently, the simulator is at the minute level
(i.e., one time step = one minute), which is changeable. The state is a stack
of market indicators and market snapshots from the last few time steps. The
action is to place an order. We support market orders and limit orders. We
also provide several wrappers to accept typically discrete or continuous actions.
Rewards can be conﬁgured by the participants with the aim of generating
policies that optimize pre-speciﬁed indicators. In our simulator, we take into
account the following factors: 1) temporary market impact; 2) order delay. We
11Website: https://wandb.ai/site

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning29
Fig. 13 Liquidation analysis of [17].
Fig. 14 An example of hyperparameter tuning.
do not consider the following factors in our simulator: 1) permanent market
impact of limit orders; 2) non-resiliency limit order book.
Liquidation analysis and trade execution:By reproducing [17], we
build a simulated environment of stock prices according to the Almgren and
Chriss model. Then we implement the multi-agent DRL algorithms for both
competing and cooperative liquidation strategies. This benchmark demonstrates
the trade execution task using deep reinforcement learning algorithms. When
trading, traders want to minimize the expected trading cost, which is also called
implementation shortfall. In Fig. 13, there are two agents, and we observe that
the implementation shortfalls decrease during the training process.
5.3 More FinRL Demos and Tutorials
• Portfolio allocation [20]: We train a DRL agent to perform a portfolio
optimization task on a set of stocks.
• Cryptocurrency trading [20]: We provide a demo [20] on 10 popular
cryptocurrencies.
• Paper trading demo: We provide a demo for paper trading. Users could
combine their own strategies or trained agents in paper trading.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
30 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
• China A-share demo: We provide a demo based on the China A-share
market data using Tushare.
• Hyperparameter tuning: The default hyperparamters may not be the
best for our tasks. Reinforcement learning algorithms are sensitive to
hyperparamters; therefore, hyperparamter tuning is an important issue.
Hyperparamters are tuned based on an objective. We provide several demos
for hyperparameter tuning using Optuna [80] and Ray Tune [81]. Fig. 14
shows an example of hyperparameter tuning in the portfolio allocation task
using A2C, which aims to maximize the Sharpe ratio.
• Robo-advising: Robo-advising by integrating ChatGPT [8] and GPT-4 [9]
will be much more powerful than before. Users are encouraged to develop
robo-advisor apps by building upon the demos that we have created using
ChatGPT [8] and GPT-4 [9]. By engaging in conversation with ChatGPT
using a chain of thought prompt, we may be able to obtain good trading
advice. Additionally, we have demonstrated that properly guiding ChatGPT
can generate new ﬁnancial factors, which speeds up the process of creating
them manually.
6 Conclusion and Future Works
Following the data-centric AI principles and the DataOps paradigm, in this
paper, we developed FinRL-Meta, a data-centric library that provides openly
accessible dynamic ﬁnancial datasets and reproducible benchmarks. FinRL-
Meta implements an automated data-curation pipeline tailored for the ﬁnancial
market, which processes data from diﬀerent sources and integrates them into
a uniﬁed market environment. FinRL-Meta adheres to the standard OpenAI
gym-style APIs, making it readily accessible to experts in both reinforcement
learning and ﬁnance. In addition, we have developed a wide range of homegrown
examples and tutorials to facilitate the usage of the library. FinRL-Meta will
serve as a source of inspiration for both researchers and practitioners who are
interested in FinRL.
For future work, FinRL-Meta aims to build a universe of ﬁnancial market
environments, like the XLand environment [79]. To improve the performance
for large-scale markets, we are exploiting GPU-based massive parallel simu-
lation such as Isaac Gym [73] and deploying it into projects such as RL for
market simulator. Moreover, it will be interesting to explore the evolutionary
perspectives [77, 78, 82, 83] to simulate the markets. We believe that FinRL-
Meta will provide insights into complex market phenomena and oﬀer guidance
for ﬁnancial regulations.
6.1 Explainability
We reproduce [84] that compares the performance of DRL algorithms with
machine learning (ML) methods on the multi-step prediction in the portfolio
allocation task. We use four technical indicators MACD, RSI, CCI, and ADX
as features. Random Forest (RF), Decision Tree Regression (DT), Linear

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning31
Fig. 15 Reproducing portfolio management of [84]: Comparison of average correlation
coeﬃcient and Sharpe ratio among ML and DRL methods.
Regression (LR), and Support Vector Machine (SVM) are the ML algorithms
in comparison. We use data from Dow Jones 30 constituent stocks to construct
the environment. We use data from 04/01/2009 to 03/31/2020 as the training
set and data from 04/01/2020 to 05/31/2022 for backtesting. In Fig. 15, the
results show that DRL methods have a higher Sharpe ratio than ML methods.
Also, DRL methods’ average correlation coeﬃcients are signiﬁcantly higher
than that of ML methods (multi-step).
We reproduce [84] that compares the performance of DRL algorithms with
machine learning (ML) methods on the multi-step prediction in the portfolio
allocation task. We use four technical indicators MACD, RSI, CCI, and ADX
as features. Random Forest (RF), Decision Tree Regression (DT), Linear
Regression (LR), and Support Vector Machine (SVM) are the ML algorithms
in comparison. We use data from Dow Jones 30 constituent stocks to construct
the environment. We use data from 04/01/2009 to 03/31/2020 as the training
set and data from 04/01/2020 to 05/31/2022 for backtesting.
6.2 Data Privacy, Strategy Privacy and Federated
Learning Technology
As our open-source community is continuously developing new features to
ensure that FinRL-Meta provides a better user experience, one of the main
targets for our next step is to enhance ﬁnancial data privacy as well as strategy
privacy for users. We discuss the potential of integrating the federated learning
technology into our open-source FinRL-Meta, in order to achieve data privacy
and strategy privacy for our users, say collaboratively training.
Federated learning is a method for training machine learning models from
distributed datasets that remains private to data owners. It allows a central
machine learning model to overcome theisolated data island, i.e., to learn from
data sets distributed on multiple devices that do not reveal or share the data
with a central server. We understand that in certain scenarios, our users face
the problem that they only have a small amount of ﬁnancial data and are not

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
32 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
unable to train a robust model, but they are also hesitant to train their models
with others due to privacy reasons. To the best of our knowledge, we would like
to name a few representative examples on the use of federated learning to help
ﬁnancial applications. Byrd et al. [85] present a privacy-preserving federated
learning protocol on a real-world credit card fraud dataset for the development
of federated learning systems. The researchers in WeBank [86] created FATE,
an industrial-grade project that supports enterprises and institutions to build
machine learning models collaboratively at large-scale in a distributed manner.
FATE has been adopted in real-world applications in ﬁnance, health and
recommender systems. We also want to mention one research work [87] which
points out the open problems in federated learning. We believe that, as a newly
introduced method, federated learning has a lot of undiscovered and exciting
applications that we can develop. We would like to encourage our community
members to explore the potential of federated learning technologies for the
beneﬁt of ﬁnancial applications.
6.3 FinRL-Meta and DAO, DeFi, NFT, Web3
Over the past decades, we have witnessed capital growth exceeding economic
growth globally. However, the door to personal capital growth is not open to all.
In a way, one needs to start rich to get richer. The situation is even worsened
by the competition with computers. Today in major stock markets, at least
60% of the trades are automated by algorithms.
How todemocratize opportunityfor personal capital growth? We need to
ally with the computers to take advantage of unprecedented amounts of data
and unparalleled computing infrastructure. Therefore, we come up with this
vision to establish an AI framework where retail traders can grow personal
capital via a pay-by-use mode. Today, we have reached a full-stack solution that
provides ﬁnancially optimized deep reinforcement learning algorithms together
with cloud-native solutions. Users can easily access numerous ﬁnancial data, as
well as computational resources whenever needed.
FinRL [1, 20] is the ﬁrst open-source framework to demonstrate the great
potential of ﬁnancial reinforcement learning [2]. Over several years’ develop-
ment12, it has evolved into an ecosystem, FinRL-Meta, serving as a playground
for data-driven ﬁnancial reinforcement learning. We believe FinRL-Meta will
reshape our ﬁnancial lives, while our open-source community will make sure it
is for the better.
Next, we discuss the potential of combining our open-source FinRL-Meta
ecosystem with emerging technologies, such as DAO, DeFi, NFT13, and Web314.
• Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) has three features: 1).
Member-owned communities without centralized leadership; 2). A safe way
to collaborate with Internet strangers; and 3). A safe place to commit funds
12We began to build an open-source community with a practical demonstration [14] at NeurIPS
2018 conference.
13Ethereum: https://ethereum.org/en/
14Web3 Foundation: https://web3.foundation/

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning33
to a speciﬁc cause. In FinRL-Meta’s open-source community (over12K
users at the moment of ﬁnalizing this paper version), we plan to encourage
community members to organize into DAO funds (essentially a distributed
fund) in an ad hoc manner. Members of a DAO fund will employ smart
contracts to crowdfunding, design strategy, implement algorithmic trading,
share proﬁt and loss, etc.
• Decentralized ﬁnance (DeFi) has three features: 1). A global, open alterna-
tive to the current ﬁnancial system; 2). Products that let you borrow, save,
invest, trade, and more; and 3). Based on open-source technology that any-
one can program with. We would like to encourage community members
to actively explore the potential of ﬁnancial reinforcement learning tech-
nologies in the emerging DeFi based ﬁnancial markets. For example, using
the automated environment layer in Section 4.3, we will connect DeFi
trading systems into gym-style market environments; also, we are actively
working with ﬁnancial data providers and cloud computing providers to
upgrade the trading infrastructure.
• Non-fungible token (NFT) has three features: 1). A way to represent
anything unique as an Ethereum-based asset; 2). NFTs are giving more
power to content creators than ever before; and 3). Powered by smart
contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. In the FinRL-Meta community, we
would like to encourage community members to release trading strategies
and codes in the NFT forms, while a DAO fund will buy these NFTs via
smart contracts and then trade in a DeFi system.
• Third-generation of WWW (Web3) incorporates concepts such as decen-
tralization, blockchain technologies, and token-based economics, which is
essentially community-run Internet. Our open-source FinRL-Meta commu-
nity will serve Web3 users a unique infrastructure and playground, where
Web3 users can establish DAO funds to trade in a DeFi system.
As a near-term development, the FinRL-Meta community would embrace
the Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) paradigm. For demonstrative and
educational purposes, our community members are actively creating notebooks,
blogs and videos. We believe it would be an eﬀective incentive to release them in
the form of NFTs. Web3MOOC guarantees authorship and ownership (a right
to proﬁt) of those NFTs, thus providing a strong incentive to our community
members for content creation.
6.4 Accessibility, Accountability, Maintenance and Rights
FinRL-Meta is an open-source project, held on GitHub. We use the MIT
License for research and educational usage. while users can utilize them as
stepping stones for customized trading strategies. Codes, market environments,
benchmarks and documentations are available on the GitHub repository:
https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinRL-Meta.
FinRL-Meta has been actively maintained by the AI4Finance community
which has over12K members at the moment. On GitHub, we keep updating

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
34 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
our codes, merging pull requests, and ﬁxing bugs and issues. We welcome
contributions from community members, researchers and quant traders.
We have accumulated six competitive advantages over the past ﬁve years.
The ﬁrst three are technological innovations:
• FinRL [1, 20] is the ﬁrst framework to provide an automatic pipeline for
ﬁnancial reinforcement learning.
• For ﬁnancial big data, the FinRL-Meta project connects with > 30 market
data sources.
• For cloud solutions, the FinRL-Podracer project [77] [78] scales out to
≥ 1000 GPUs. We have extensive testings on NVIDIA’s DGX-2 SuperPod
platform.
Based on the above projects and active contributions, an open-source
community in the intersection of ML and Finance ﬁelds is emerging. Our
AI4Finance community is robust with the following three features:
• We have over12K active community members, many of which are actively
designing strategies and connecting with paper trading, even live trading.
We are collaborating with tens of universities and research institutes, and
≥ 50 software engineers from IT companies.
• Both Columbia University (Department of Electrical Engineering, Depart-
ment of Statistics) and New York University ((Department of Finance)
have opened delicate courses about FinRL, while≥ 120 students in total
have taken it.
• In academia, we have several accepted papers and also delivered sev-
eral invited talks. Our AI4Finance Foundation (https://github.com/
AI4Finance-Foundation) serves as a bridge between machine learning,
data science, operation research, and ﬁnance communities.
Acknowledgement
We thank Mr. Tao Liu (IDEA Research, International Digital Economy
Academy) for technical support of computing platform on this research project.
Ming Zhu was supported by National Natural Science Foundations of China
(Grant No. 61902387). Christina Dan Wang is supported in part by National
Natural Science Foundation of China (NNSFC) grant 12271363 and 11901395.
Disclaimer: Nothing in this paper and the FinRL-Meta reposi-
tory is ﬁnancial advice, and NOT a recommendation to trade real
money. Please use common sense and always ﬁrst consult a profes-
sional before trading or investing.
References
[1] Liu, X.-Y., Yang, H., Gao, J., Wang, C.D.: FinRL: Deep reinforcement
learning framework to automate trading in quantitative ﬁnance. ACM

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning35
International Conference on AI in Finance (ICAIF) (2021)
[2] Hambly, B., Xu, R., Yang, H.: Recent advances in reinforcement learning
in ﬁnance. Mathematical Finance (2023)
[3] Sutton, R.S., Barto, A.G.: Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction,
(2018)
[4] Mnih, V., Kavukcuoglu, K., Silver, D., Rusu, A., Veness, J., Bellemare,
M., Graves, A., Riedmiller, M., Fidjeland, A., Ostrovski, G., Petersen, S.,
Beattie, C., Sadik, A., Antonoglou, I., King, H., Kumaran, D., Wierstra,
D., Legg, S., Hassabis, D.: Human-level control through deep reinforcement
learning. Nature518, 529–33 (2015)
[5] Silver, D., Huang, A., Maddison, C.J., Guez, A., Sifre, L., Van Den Driess-
che, G., Schrittwieser, J., Antonoglou, I., Panneershelvam, V., Lanctot,
M., et al.: Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks and tree
search. nature529(7587), 484–489 (2016)
[6] Silver, D., Schrittwieser, J., Simonyan, K., Antonoglou, I., Huang, A.,
Guez, A., Hubert, T., Baker, L., Lai, M., Bolton, A.,et al.: Mastering the
game of Go without human knowledge. Nature550(7676), 354–359 (2017)
[7] Vinyals, O., Babuschkin, I., Czarnecki, W.M., Mathieu, M., Dudzik, A.,
Chung, J., Choi, D.H., Powell, R., Ewalds, T., Georgiev, P.,et al.: Grand-
master level in StarCraft II using multi-agent reinforcement learning.
Nature 575(7782), 350–354 (2019)
[8] Ouyang, L., Wu, J., Jiang, X., Almeida, D., Wainwright, C., Mishkin,
P., Zhang, C., Agarwal, S., Slama, K., Ray, A.,et al.: Training language
models to follow instructions with human feedback. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems35, 27730–27744 (2022)
[9] OpenAI:GPT-4technicalreport.https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08774(2023)
[10] Deng, J., Dong, W., Socher, R., Li, L.-J., Li, K., Fei-Fei, L.: ImageNet: A
large-scale hierarchical image database. In: IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 248–255 (2009)
[11] Lussange, J., Lazarevich, I., Bourgeois-Gironde, S., Palminteri, S., Gutkin,
B.: Modelling stock markets by multi-agent reinforcement learning.
Computational Economics57(1), 113–147 (2021)
[12] Pricope, T.-V.: Deep reinforcement learning in quantitative algorithmic
trading: A review. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.00123 (2021)

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
36 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
[13] Raberto, M., Cincotti, S., Focardi, S.M., Marchesi, M.: Agent-based sim-
ulation of a ﬁnancial market. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its
Applications 299(1-2), 319–327 (2001)
[14] Liu, X.-Y., Xiong, Z., Zhong, S., Yang, H., Walid, A.: Practical deep
reinforcement learning approach for stock trading. Workshop on Challenges
and Opportunities for AI in Financial Services, NeurIPS (2018)
[15] Yang, H., Liu, X.-Y., Zhong, S., Walid, A.: Deep reinforcement learning
for automated stock trading: An ensemble strategy. ACM International
Conference on AI in Finance (2020)
[16] Zhang, Z., Zohren, S., Roberts, S.: Deep reinforcement learning for trading.
The Journal of Financial Data Science2(2), 25–40 (2020)
[17] Bao, W., Liu, X.-Y.: Multi-agent deep reinforcement learning for liquida-
tion strategy analysis. ICML Workshop on Applications and Infrastructure
for Multi-Agent Learning (2019)
[18] Amrouni, S., Moulin, A., Vann, J., Vyetrenko, S., Balch, T., Veloso, M.:
ABIDES-Gym: Gym environments for multi-agent discrete event simula-
tion and application to ﬁnancial markets. ACM International Conference
on AI in Finance (ICAIF) (2021)
[19] Han, J., Xia, Z., Liu, X.-Y., Zhang, C., Wang, Z., Guo, j.: Massively parallel
market simulator for ﬁnancial reinforcement learning. AI in Finance Bridge,
AAAI (2023)
[20] Liu, X.-Y., Yang, H., Chen, Q., Zhang, R., Yang, L., Xiao, B., Wang, C.D.:
FinRL: A deep reinforcement learning library for automated stock trading
in quantitative ﬁnance. Deep RL Workshop, NeurIPS (2020)
[21] Liu, X.-Y., Xia, Z., Rui, J., Gao, J., Yang, H., Zhu, M., Wang, C.D., Wang,
Z., Guo, J.: FinRL-Meta: Market environments and benchmarks for data-
driven ﬁnancial reinforcement learning. In: Thirty-sixth Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems
[22] Dulac-Arnold, G., Levine, N., Mankowitz, D.J., Li, J., Paduraru, C., Gowal,
S., Hester, T.: Challenges of real-world reinforcement learning: deﬁnitions,
benchmarks and analysis. Machine Learning110(9), 2419–2468 (2021)
[23] Dulac-Arnold, G., Mankowitz, D., Hester, T.: Challenges of real-world
reinforcement learning. ICML Workshop on Reinforcement Learning for
Real Life (2019)
[24] Whang, S.E., Roh, Y., Song, H., Lee, J.-G.: Data collection and quality
challenges in deep learning: A data-centric AI perspective. The VLDB

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning37
Journal, 1–23 (2023)
[25] Zha, D., Bhat, Z.P., Lai, K.-H., Yang, F., Jiang, Z., Zhong, S., Hu, X.: Data-
centric artiﬁcial intelligence: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.10158
(2023)
[26] Zha, D., Bhat, Z.P., Lai, K.-H., Yang, F., Hu, X.: Data-centric ai:
Perspectives and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.04819 (2023)
[27] Atwal, H.: Practical DataOps: Delivering Agile Data Science at Scale,
(2019)
[28] Ereth, J.: DataOps: Towards a deﬁnition. LWDA2191, 104–112 (2018)
[29] Mazumder, M., Banbury, C., Yao, X., Karlaš, B., Rojas, W.G., Diamos,
S., Diamos, G., He, L., Kiela, D., Jurado, D., et al.: Dataperf: Benchmarks
for data-centric ai development. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.10062 (2022)
[30] Sambasivan, N., Kapania, S., Highﬁll, H., Akrong, D., Paritosh, P., Aroyo,
L.M.: “everyone wants to do the model work, not the data work”: Data
cascades in high-stakes ai. In: Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on
Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1–15 (2021)
[31] Polyzotis, N., Zaharia, M.: What can data-centric ai learn from data and
ml engineering? arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.06439 (2021)
[32] Ardon, L., Vadori, N., Spooner, T., Xu, M., Vann, J., Ganesh, S.: Towards
a fully RL-based market simulator. ACM International Conference on AI
in Finance (ICAIF) (2021)
[33] Coletta, A., Prata, M., Conti, M., Mercanti, E., Bartolini, N., Moulin, A.,
Vyetrenko, S., Balch, T.: Towards realistic market simulations: a generative
adversarial networks approach. ACM International Conference on AI in
Finance (ICAIF) (2021)
[34] Levine, S., Kumar, A., Tucker, G., Fu, J.: Oﬄine reinforcement learn-
ing: Tutorial, review, and perspectives on open problems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.01643 (2020)
[35] Mahfouz, M., Gopalakrishnan, S., Suau, M., Patra, S., P. Mandic, D.,
Magazzeni, D., Veloso, M.: Towards asset allocation using behavioural
cloning and reinforcement learning. AAAI AI for Financial Services Bridge
(2023)
[36] Christiano, P.F., Leike, J., Brown, T., Martic, M., Legg, S., Amodei, D.:
Deep reinforcement learning from human preferences. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems30 (2017)

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
38 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
[37] Brockman, G., Cheung, V., Pettersson, L., Schneider, J., Schulman, J.,
Tang, J., Zaremba, W.: OpenAI Gym. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.01540
(2016)
[38] Raﬃn, A., Hill, A., Gleave, A., Kanervisto, A., Ernestus, M., Dormann,
N.: Stable-baselines3: Reliable reinforcement learning implementations.
Journal of Machine Learning Research (2021)
[39] Liang, E., Liaw, R., Nishihara, R., Moritz, P., Fox, R., Goldberg, K.,
Gonzalez, J., Jordan, M., Stoica, I.: RLlib: Abstractions for distributed
reinforcement learning. In: International Conference on Machine Learning,
pp. 3053–3062 (2018). PMLR
[40] Liu, X.-Y., Li, Z., Wang, Z., Zheng, J.: ElegantRL: A Lightweight and
Stable Deep Reinforcement Learning Library. GitHub (2021)
[41] Fu, J., Kumar, A., Nachum, O., Tucker, G., Levine, S.: D4RL: Datasets for
deep data-driven reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.07219
(2020)
[42] Qin, R., Gao, S., Zhang, X., Xu, Z., Huang, S., Li, Z., Zhang, W., Yu, Y.:
NeoRL: A near real-world benchmark for oﬄine reinforcement learning.
NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks (2022)
[43] Vázquez-Canteli, J.R., Kämpf, J., Henze, G., Nagy, Z.: CityLearn v1.0: An
OpenAI gym environment for demand response with deep reinforcement
learning. ACM International Conference on Systems for Energy-Eﬃcient
Buildings, Cities, and Transportation (2019)
[44] Hein, D., Depeweg, S., Tokic, M., Udluft, S., Hentschel, A., Runkler, T.A.,
Sterzing, V.: A benchmark environment motivated by industrial control
problems. In: IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence
(SSCI), pp. 1–8 (2017). IEEE
[45] Todorov,E.,Erez,T.,Tassa,Y.:MuJoCo:Aphysicsengineformodel-based
control. In: IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems, pp. 5026–5033 (2012). IEEE
[46] Treleaven, P., Galas, M., Lalchand, V.: Algorithmic trading review.
Communications of the ACM56, 76–85 (2013)
[47] Nuti,G.,Mirghaemi,M.,Treleaven,P.,Yingsaeree,C.:Algorithmictrading.
Computer 44, 61–69 (2011)
[48] Alla, S., Adari, S.K.: What is MLOps? In: Beginning MLOps with MLFlow,
pp. 79–124 (2021)

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning39
[49] Wilkman, M., et al.: Feasibility of a reinforcement learning based stock
trader. Aaltodoc (2020)
[50] Brown, S.J., Goetzmann, W., Ibbotson, R.G., Ross, S.A.: Survivorship
bias in performance studies. The Review of Financial Studies5(4), 553–580
(1992)
[51] Gort, B., Liu, X.-Y., Sun, X., Gao, J., Chen, S., Wang, C.D.: Deep
reinforcement learning for cryptocurrency trading: Practical approach to
address backtest overﬁtting. AI in Finance Bridge, AAAI (2023)
[52] De Prado, M.L.: Advances in Financial Machine Learning, (2018)
[53] Mamon, R.S., Elliott, R.J.: Hidden Markov Models in Finance vol. 4,
(2007)
[54] Liu, Y., Liu, Q., Zhao, H., Pan, Z., Liu, C.: Adaptive quantitative trading:
An imitative deep reinforcement learning approach. In: Proceedings of the
AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence), vol. 34, pp. 2128–2135 (2020)
[55] Rundo, F.: Deep LSTM with reinforcement learning layer for ﬁnancial
trend prediction in fx high frequency trading systems. Applied Sciences
9(20), 4460 (2019)
[56] Xiao, G., Li, J., Chen, Y., Li, K.: Malfcs: An eﬀective malware classiﬁcation
framework with automated feature extraction based on deep convolutional
neural networks. Elsevier Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing
141, 49–58 (2020)
[57] Nargesian, F., Samulowitz, H., Khurana, U., Khalil, E.B., Turaga, D.S.:
Learning feature engineering for classiﬁcation. In: IJCAI, vol. 17, pp.
2529–2535 (2017)
[58] Li, X., Li, Y., Yang, H., Yang, L., Liu, X.-Y.: DP-LSTM: Diﬀerential
privacy-inspired lstm for stock prediction using ﬁnancial news. 33rd Con-
ference on Neural Information Processing Systems Workshop on Robust
AI in Financial Services: Data, Fairness, Explainability, Trustworthiness,
and Privacy, December 2019 (2019)
[59] Fang, Y., Liu, X.-Y., Yang, H.: Practical machine learning approach to cap-
ture the scholar data driven Alpha in AI industry. In: IEEE International
Conference on Big Data (Big Data), pp. 2230–2239 (2019). IEEE
[60] Chen, Q., Liu, X.-Y.: Quantifying ESG alpha using scholar big data: an
automated machine learning approach. In: Proceedings of the First ACM
International Conference on AI in Finance, pp. 1–8 (2020)

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
40 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
[61] Xing, F.Z., Cambria, E., Welsch, R.E.: Natural language based ﬁnancial
forecasting: a survey. Artiﬁcial Intelligence Review50(1), 49–73 (2018)
[62] Loughran, T., McDonald, B.: When is a liability not a liability? textual
analysis, dictionaries, and 10-ks. The Journal of ﬁnance66(1), 35–65
(2011)
[63] Hamilton, W.L., Clark, K., Leskovec, J., Jurafsky, D.: Inducing domain-
speciﬁc sentiment lexicons from unlabeled corpora. In: Proceedings of
the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, vol.
2016, p. 595 (2016). NIH Public Access
[64] Tai, Y.-J., Kao, H.-Y.: Automatic domain-speciﬁc sentiment lexicon gener-
ation with label propagation. In: Proceedings of International Conference
on Information Integration and Web-based Applications & Services, pp.
53–62 (2013)
[65] Hutto, C., Gilbert, E.: Vader: A parsimonious rule-based model for senti-
ment analysis of social media text. In: Proceedings of the International
AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media, vol. 8, pp. 216–225 (2014)
[66] Chen, C.-C., Huang, H.-H., Chen, H.-H.: Ntusd-ﬁn: a market sentiment
dictionary for ﬁnancial social media data applications. In: Proceedings of
the 1st Financial Narrative Processing Workshop (FNP 2018), pp. 37–43
(2018)
[67] Miller, G.A.: WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database, (1998)
[68] Loria, S., et al.: textblob documentation. Release 0.152(8) (2018)
[69] Strapparava, C., Mihalcea, R.: Semeval-2007 task 14: Aﬀective text. In:
Proceedings of the Fourth International Workshop on Semantic Evaluations
(SemEval-2007), pp. 70–74 (2007)
[70] Goodfellow, I., Pouget-Abadie, J., Mirza, M., Xu, B., Warde-Farley, D.,
Ozair, S., Courville, A., Bengio, Y.: Generative adversarial nets. Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems27 (2014)
[71] Kritzman, M., Li, Y.: Skulls, ﬁnancial turbulence, and risk management.
Financial Analysts Journal66(5), 30–41 (2010)
[72] Whaley, R.E.: Understanding the VIX. The Journal of Portfolio Manage-
ment 35(3), 98–105 (2009)
[73] Makoviychuk, V., Wawrzyniak, L., Guo, Y., Lu, M., Storey, K., Macklin,
M., Hoeller, D., Rudin, N., Allshire, A., Handa, A., State, G.: Isaac

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning41
Gym: High performance GPU-based physics simulation for robot learning.
Datasets and Benchmarks Track, NeurIPS (2021)
[74] Sharpe, W.F.: The Sharpe Ratio. Journal of Portfolio Management (1994)
[75] Malkiel, B.G.: Passive investment strategies and eﬃcient markets. Euro-
pean Financial Management9(1), 1–10 (2003)
[76] Ang, A.: Mean-variance investing. Columbia Business School Research
Paper No. 12/49 (2012)
[77] Li, Z., Liu, X.-Y., Zheng, J., Wang, Z., Walid, A., Guo, J.: FinRL-Podracer:
High-performance and scalable deep reinforcement learning for quantitative
ﬁnance. ACM International Conference on AI in Finance (ICAIF) (2021)
[78] Liu, X.-Y., Li, Z., Yang, Z., Zheng, J., Wang, Z., Walid, A., Guo, J., Jordan,
M.: ElegantRL-Podracer: Scalable and elastic library for cloud-native
deep reinforcement learning. Deep Reinforcement Learning Workshop at
NeurIPS (2021)
[79] Team, O.E.L., Stooke, A., Mahajan, A., Barros, C., Deck, C., Bauer, J.,
Sygnowski, J., Trebacz, M., Jaderberg, M., Mathieu, M., et al.: Open-ended
learning leads to generally capable agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.12808
(2021)
[80] Akiba, T., Sano, S., Yanase, T., Ohta, T., Koyama, M.: Optuna: A
next-generation hyperparameter optimization framework. ACM SIGKDD
International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining (2019)
[81] Liaw, R., Liang, E., Nishihara, R., Moritz, P., Gonzalez, J.E., Stoica, I.:
Tune: A research platform for distributed model selection and training.
ICML AutoML Workshop (2018)
[82] Gupta, A., Savarese, S., Ganguli, S., Fei-Fei, L.: Embodied intelligence via
learning and evolution. Nature Communications (2021)
[83] Scholl, M.P., Calinescu, A., Farmer, J.D.: How market ecology explains
market malfunction. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
118(26) (2021)
[84] Guan, M., Liu, X.-Y.: Explainable deep reinforcement learning for portfolio
management: An empirical approach. ACM International Conference on
AI in Finance (ICAIF) (2021)
[85] Byrd, D., Polychroniadou, A.: Diﬀerentially private secure multi-party
computation for federated learning in ﬁnancial applications. In: Proceed-
ings of the First ACM International Conference on AI in Finance, pp. 1–9

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
42 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
(2020)
[86] Liu, Y., Fan, T., Chen, T., Xu, Q., Yang, Q.: Fate: An industrial grade
platformforcollaborativelearningwithdataprotection.JournalofMachine
Learning Research22(226), 1–6 (2021)
[87] Kairouz, P., McMahan, H.B., Avent, B., Bellet, A., Bennis, M., Bhagoji,
A.N., Bonawitz, K., Charles, Z., Cormode, G., Cummings, R.,et al.:
Advances and open problems in federated learning. Foundations and
Trends® in Machine Learning14(1–2), 1–210 (2021)
[88] Sutton, R.S.: The quest for a common model of the intelligent decision
maker. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.13252 (2022)
[89] Lillicrap, T., Hunt, J., Pritzel, A., Heess, N., Erez, T., Tassa, Y., Silver,
D., Wierstra, D.: Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning.
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) (2016)
[90] Schulman, J., Wolski, F., Dhariwal, P., Radford, A., Klimov, O.: Proximal
policy optimization algorithms. arXiv:1707.06347 (2017)
[91] Liu, X.-Y., Rui, J., Gao, J., Yang, L., Yang, H., Wang, Z., Wang, C.D., Jian,
G.: FinRL-Meta: Data-driven deep reinforcementlearning in quantitative
ﬁnance. Data-Centric AI Workshop, NeurIPS (2021)

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning43
T able 4 List of key terms for reinforcement learning.
Key T erms Description
Agent [88] A decision maker
Environment [88] A world with which an agent interacts with
Gym-style environment [37] A standard form of DRL environment by OpenAI
Markov Decision Process (MDP) A mathematical framework to model decision-making problems
State, Action, Reward Three main factors in an agent-environment interaction
Policy A rule that agent follow to make decision
Policy gradient An approach to solve RL problems by optimizing the policy directly
Deep Q-Learning (DQN) [4] The ﬁrst DRL algorithm that uses a neural network to approximate the Q-function
DDPG [89] Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient algorithm
PPO [90] Proximal Policy Optimization algorithm
Hyperparameter tuning Change hyperparameter during training to get a converged result faster
Ensemble strategy An ML technique. Here we combine several DRL agents to a better model
Population-based training (PBT) Optimise a population of models and hyperparameters, and select the optimal set
Generational evolution [77] Employing an evolution strategy over generations
Tournament-based evolution [78] An evolution by asynchronously updating a tournament board of models
Curriculum learning Training an ML model from easier to harder data, imitating the human curriculum
Simulation-to-reality gap The diﬀerence between simulation environment and real-world task
T able 5 List of key terms for ﬁnance.
Key T erms Description
Algorithmic trading A method of trading using designed algorithm instead of human traders
Backtesting A method to see how a strategy performs on a certain period of historical data
Signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) A ratio of desired signal (good data) to undesired signal (noise)
DataOps A series of principles and practices to improve the quality of data science
Sentiment data A category in ﬁnancial big data that contains subjective viewpoints
Historical data All kinds of data that already existed in the past
Survivorship bias A bias caused by only seeing existing examples, but not those already died out
Information leakage When the data contains future information, causing model overﬁtting
Paper trading Simulation of buying and selling without using real money
OHLCV A popular form of market data with: Open, High, Low, Close, Volume
Technical indicators A statistical calculation based on OHLCV data to indicate future price trends
Market frictions A ﬁnancial market friction as anything that interferes with trade.
Market crash A huge drop of market price within a very short time
Volatility index (VIX) [72] A market index that shows the market’s expectations for volatility
Limit Order Book (LOB) A list to record the interest of buyers and sellers
Smart beta index An enhanced indexing strategy to beat a benchmark index
Liquidation, trade execution An investor closes their position in an asset
A Terminology
We provide a list of key terms for reinforcement learning and ﬁnance in Table 4
and Table 5. For terminologies of reinforcement learning, interested users can
refer to [88] or the classic textbook [3]. Also, the webpage15 explains key
concepts of RL. For terminologies of ﬁnance, interested users can refer to [52].
15OpenAI SpinningUp: https://spinningup.openai.com/en/latest/spinningup/rl_intro.html

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
44 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
B Dataset Documentation and Usages
We organize the dataset documentation according to the suggested template of
datasheets for datasets16.
B.1 Motivation
• For what purpose was the dataset created?
As data is refreshing minute-to-millisecond, ﬁnance is a particularly
diﬃcult playground for deep reinforcement learning.
In academia, scholars use ﬁnancial big data to obtain more complex
and precise understanding of markets and economics. While industries use
ﬁnancial big data to reﬁne their analytical strategies and strengthen their
prediction models. To serve the rapidly growing AI4Finance community,
we create FinRL-Meta that provides data access from diﬀerent sources,
pre-processes the raw data with diﬀerent features, and builds the data to
RL environments. We aim to provide dynamic RL environments that are
manageable by users.
We aim to build a ﬁnancial metaverse, a universe of near real-market
environments, as a playground for data-driven ﬁnancial machine learning.
• Who created the dataset?
FinRL-Meta is an open-source project created by the AI4Finance com-
munity. Contents of FinRL-Meta are contributed by the authors of this
paper and will be maintained by members of the AI4Finance community.
• Who funded the creation of the dataset?
AI4Finance Foundation, a non-proﬁt open-source community that shares
AI tools for ﬁnance, funded our project.
B.2 Composition
• What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent?
Instances of FinRL-Meta are volume-price data includes: stocks, securi-
ties, cryptocurrencies, etc; and sentiment data from social media, ESG,
Google Trends, etc. FinRL-Meta provides hundreds of market environ-
ments through an automatic pipeline that collects dynamic datasets from
real-world markets and processes them into standard gym-style market
environments. FinRL-Meta also benchmarks popular papers as stepping
stones for users to design new trading strategies.
• How many instances are there in total?
FinRL-Meta does not store data directly. Instead, we provide codes for a
pipeline of data accessing, data cleaning, feature engineering, and building
into RL environments. Table 2 provides the supported data sources of
FinRL-Meta.
16Timnit Gebru, Jamie Morgenstern, Briana Vecchione, Jennifer Wortman Vaughan, Hanna
Wal- lach, Hal Daumé Iii, and Kate Crawford. Datasheets for datasets.Communications of the
ACM, 64(12):86–92, 2021.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning45
At the moment, there are hundreds of market environments, dozens of
tutorials and demos, and several benchmarks provided.
• Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample
of instances from a larger set?
With our provided codes, users could fetch data from the data source
by properly specifying the starting date, ending date, time granularity,
asset set, attributes, etc.
• What data does each instance consist of?
Now there are several types of ﬁnancial data, as shown in Table 2:
• Is there a label or target associated with each instance?
No. There is not label or preset target for each instance. But users can
use our benchmarks are baselines.
• Is any information missing from individual instances?
Yes. In several data sources, there are missing values and we provided
standard preprocessing methods.
• Are relationships between individual instances made explicit?
Yes. An instance is a sample set of the market of interest.
• Are there recommended data splits?
We recommend users to follow our training-testing-training pipeline, as
shown in Fig. 4. Users can ﬂexibly choose their preferred settings, e.g., in
stock trading task, our demo access Yahoo! Finance database and use data
from 01/01/2009 to 06/30/2020 for training and data from 07/01/2020 to
05/31/2022 for backtesting.
• Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the
dataset?
For the raw data fetched from diﬀerent sources, there are noise and
outliers. We provide codes to process the data and built them into standard
RL gym environment.
• Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely
on external resources?
It is linked to external resources. As shown in Table 2, FinRL-Meta
fetch data from data sources to build gym environments.
• Does the dataset contain data that might be considered conﬁ-
dential?
No. All our data are from publicly available data sources.
• Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might
be oﬀensive, insulting, threatening, or might otherwise cause
anxiety?
No. All our data are numerical.
B.3 Collection Process
• How was the data associated with each instance acquired?
FinRL-Meta fetches data from data sources. as shown in Table 2.
• What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data?

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
46 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
FinRL-Meta provides dynamic market environments that are built
according to users’ settings. To achieve this, we provide software APIs to
fetch data from diﬀerent data sources. Note that some data sources require
accounts and passwords or have limitations on the number or frequency
of requests.
• If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the
sampling strategy?
It is dynamic, depending on users’ settings, such as the starting date,
ending date, time granularity, asset set, attributes, etc.
• Who was involved in the data collection process and how were
they compensated?
Our codes collect publicly available market data, which is free.
• Over what timeframe was the data collected?
It is not applicable because the environments are created dynamically
by running the codes to fetch data in real-time.
• Were any ethical review processes conducted?
No?
B.4 Preprocessing/cleaning/labeling
• Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done?
Yes. For the raw data fetched from diﬀerent sources, there are noise
and outliers. We provide codes to process the data and built them into
standard RL gym environment.
• Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/-
cleaned/labeled data
The raw data are hold by diﬀerent data sources (data providers).
• Is the software that was used to preprocess/clean/label the data
available?
Yes. We use our own codes to do cleaning and preprocessing.
B.5 Uses
• Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?
Yes. Thousands of AI4Finance community members use FinRL-Meta
for learning and research purpose. There are also courses in colleges using
FinRL-Meta as material for teaching ﬁnancial reinforcement learning.
Demos and tutorials are mentioned in Section 5.
• Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems
that use the dataset?
1. Research papers that used FinRL-Meta are listed here:
https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinRL-Tutorials/blob/
master/FinRL_papers.md
Our conference version of FinRL-Meta [21] appeared in NeurIPS 2022
Datasets and Benchmarks Track.

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning47
Our workshop version of FinRL-Meta [91] appeared in NeurIPS 2021
Workshop on Data-Centric AI.
2. The following three repositories have incorporated FinRL-Meta:
–FinRL-Meta corresponding to the market layer of FinRL (7K stars):
https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinRL
– ElegantRL (2.7K stars) supports FinRL-Meta:
https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/ElegantRL
– FinRL-Podracer:
https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinRL_Podracer
• What (other) tasks could the dataset be used for?
Besides the current tasks (tutorial, demo and benchmarks), FinRL-Meta
will be useful for the following tasks:
–Curriculumlearningforagents :BasedonFinRL-Meta(auniverse
of market environments, say≥ 100), one is able to construct an
environment by sampling data samples from multiple market datasets,
similar to XLand [79]. In this way, one can apply the curriculum
learning method [79] to train a generally capable agent for several
ﬁnancial tasks.
–To improve the performance for the large-scale markets, we are
exploiting GPU-based massive parallel simulation such as Isaac Gym
[73].
–It will be interesting to explore the evolutionary perspectives [77, 78,
82, 83] to simulate the markets. We believe that FinRL-Meta will
provide insights into complex market phenomena and oﬀer guidance
for ﬁnancial regulations.
• Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or
the way it was collected and preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that
might impact future uses?
We believe that FinRL-Meta will not encounter usage limits. Our data
are fetched from diﬀerent sources in real-time when running the codes.
However, there may be one or two out of≥ 30 data sources (in Table 2)
change data access rules that may impact future use. So please refer to
the rules and accessibility of certain data sources when using.
• Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?
No. Since there are no ethical problems for FinRL-Meta, users could
use FinRL-Meta in any task as long as it does not violate laws.
Disclaimer: Nothing herein is ﬁnancial advice, and NOT a rec-
ommendationtotraderealmoney.Pleaseusecommonsenseand
always ﬁrst consult a professional before trading or investing.
B.6 Distribution
• Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the
entity (e.g., company, institution, organization) on behalf of
which the dataset was created?

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
48 Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning
No. It will always be held on GitHub under MIT license, for educational
and research purposes.
• How will the dataset be distributed?
Our codes and existing environments are available on GitHub
FinRL-Meta repository https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/
FinRL-Meta.
• When will the dataset be distributed?
FinRL-Meta is publicly available since February 14th, 2021.
• Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intel-
lectual property (IP) license, and/or under applicable terms of
use (ToU)?
FinRL-Meta is distributed under MIT License, for educational and
research purposes.
• Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions
on the data associated with the instances?
No.
• Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to
the dataset or to individual instances?
No. Our data are fetched from diﬀerent sources in real time. However,
there may be one or two out of≥ 20 data sources (in Table 2) change
data access rules that may impact future use. So please refer to the rules
and accessibility of certain data sources when using.
B.7 Maintenance
• Who will be supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?
FinRL-Meta has been actively maintained by AI4Finance Foundation
(including the authors of this paper) which has over 12K members at the
moment (Mar. 2023). We are actively updating market environments, to
serve the rapidly growing open-source AI4Finance community.
• How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be con-
tacted?
We encourage users to join our Slack channel:
https://join.slack.com/t/ai4ﬁnanceworkspace/shared_invite/
zt-v670l1jm-dzTgIT9fHZIjjrqprrY0kg
or our mailing list:
https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/ai4ﬁnance,
• Is there an erratum?
Users can use GitHub to report issues/bugs and use Slack channel,
Discord channel, or mailing list (AI4Finance_FinRL at https://groups.
google.com/u/2/g/ai4ﬁnance) to discuss solutions. AI4Finance community
is actively improving the codes, say extracting technical indicators, evalu-
ating feature importance, quantifying the probability of model overﬁtting,
etc.
• Will the dataset be updated?

Springer Nature 2021 LATEX template
Dynamic Datasets and Market Environments for Financial Reinforcement Learning49
Yes, we are actively updating codes and adding more data sources.
Users could get information and the newly updated version through our
GitHub repository, or join the mailing list: https://groups.google.com/u/
1/g/ai4ﬁnance.
• If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on
the retention of the data associated with the instances
The data of FinRL-Meta do not relate to people.
• Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/host-
ed/maintained?
Yes. All versions can be found on our GitHub repository.
• If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the
dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?
We maintain FinRL-Meta on GitHub. Users can use GitHub to report
issues/bugs and use Slack channel or mailing list to discuss solutions. We
welcome community members to submit pull requests through GitHub.